I’ve always been like this I’ve been taking medicine ever since I was weaned . Many well - known doctors have examined me , but none of their prescriptions was any use . The year I was three , I remember being told , a scabby monk came to our house and wanted to take me away to be a nun . My parents wouldn’t hear of it . The monk said , ‘ If you can’t bear to part with her she ’ll probably never get well . The only other remedy is to keep her from hearing weeping and from seeing any relatives apart from her father and mother . That ’s her only hope of having a quiet life . ’ No one paid any attention , of course , to such crazy talk . Now I ’m still taking ginseng pills .     “ The people here are so respectful and solemn , they all seem to be holding their breath . Who can this be , so boisterous and pert ? ”    “ You don’t know her yet . ”“ Thank you very much , aunt , you ’re too kind , ”“Does aunt mean my elder cousin with the jade in his mouth?” “Mother often spoke of him. I know he’s a year older than me, his name is Baoyu, and for all his pranks he’s very good to his girl cousins. But how can I provoke him? I’ll be spending all my time with the other girls in a different part of the house while our boy cousins are in the outer courtyards.”    “ Really I shouldn’t decline . But it might look rude if I delayed in calling on my second uncle . Please excuse me and let me stay another time . ”    “ I’ve just finished the Four Books , ”“ But I ’m very ignorant . ”“How very strange!”“It’s as if I’d seen him somewhere before. He looks so familiar.    “ No , ” “ I’ve only studied for a couple of years and learned a few characters . ”    “ I have none . No, I haven’t. I suppose it’s too rare for everybody to have.    “ What a commotion ! ”    “ Come here . Let me see to it . ” “ I don’t want them . They’ve been handled by some stinking man . “ It ’s your nanny scolding Xiren , ”“Thank you very much, aunt, you’re too kind,”“I’ll remember what you’ve said,” “But can you tell me where that jade of his came from, and what the inscription on it is?”“I can look at it tomorrow,”     “ There ’s nothing wrong with Xiren , yet your nanny is for ever nagging at her . Old age has befuddled her . ”“ Not I ! ”“Am I the only one getting these?” “Or have the other girls been given some too?”“I might have known.” “I wouldn’t get mine till the others had taken their pick.”“I’ve chosen a bad time to come.”“Either everybody comes at once or no one comes,” “If he came one day and I the next, spacing out our visits, you’d have callers every day and would find it neither too lonely nor too distracting. What’s so puzzling about that, cousin?”“Wasn’t I right?” “As soon as I come, he must go.”“Who told you to bring this?” “Many thanks. Think I was freezing to death here?” “So you do whatever she asks, but let whatever I say go in one ear and out the other. You jump to obey her instructions faster than if they were an Imperial edict.”“You don’t understand, aunt,” “It doesn’t matter here, but people anywhere else might well take offence. Sending a hand-stove over from my quarters as if my hosts didn’t possess such a thing! Instead of calling my maids too fussy, people would imagine I al¬ways behave in this outrageous fashion.”“Don’t be such a spoil-sport,” “If Uncle sends for you, cousin, we can say Aunt Xue is keeping you. This nanny of yours has been drinking and is working off the effects of the wine on us.” “If Uncle sends for you, cousin, we can say Aunt Xue is keeping you. This nanny of yours has been drinking and is working off the effects of the wine on us.” “Never mind the old thing. Why shouldn’t we enjoy ourselves?”“Why should I egg him on?” “I can’t be bothered with offering him advice either. You’re too pernickety, nanny. The old lady often gives him wine, so why shouldn’t he have a drop more here with his aunt? Are you suggesting that auntie’s an outsider and he shouldn’t behave like that here?”“Are you ready to go?”“We’ve been here nearly all day, it’s time we left. They may be wondering where we are.”“That’s better,” “Now you can put on your cloak.”“Good,” “So you’re going to ‘pluck fragrant osmanthus in the palace of the moon.’ I’m sorry I can’t see you off.”“Aren’t you going to say goodbye to Baochai?” “So you’ve given them that pouch I made you too!” “All right, that’s the last thing you’ll ever get from me.”“You don’t have to treat me like that, kind one moment and cruel the next. If it’s a quarrel you want, we’d better have nothing more to do with each other. Why carry on like this?”“Since you won’t give me any peace, I’m going to leave you,” she declared.“First you say you don’t want it, and now you’re putting it on again. I really blush for you.” “Why don’t you go for a stroll? I haven’t recovered yet from all that excitement the other night. I’m still aching from head to foot.”“ Are you all ganging up to make fun of me ? ”“All right, if stay you must, go and sit down properly over there and we’ll talk.”“You really are the bane of my life! All right, have this.”“Who wears anything fragrant in mid-winter?” she asked.“How do I know? Unless it’s some fragrance from my wardrobe that’s clung to my gown.”“Do I have a Buddhist arhat to give me scent?” “Even if I had some rare recipe, I’ve no kind cousin or brother to concoct it for me with stamens, buds, dew and snow. All I have are common scents.”    “ If that ’s how you feel , you ’d better hire a special company to play my favourite pieces instead of expecting me to cash in on someone else ’s birthday . ”“ That ’s easy , we ’ll hire a company next time and let the rest of them cash in on us .     “ Do be quiet and watch , ”“ Before we ’ve seen The Drunken Monk you ’re playing The General Feigns Madness . “ A fine question to ask ! ”“ I do n’t know . For you I ’m a figure of fun , to be compared with an actress in order to raise a laugh . ”“Stop it, Baoyu,” “Stop, or I’ll be angry.”“I dare not.” “You say I’ve an un¬usual scent, have you a warm scent?” “How dense you are! You have jade, and someone else has gold to match it. So don’t you have a warm scent to match her cold scent?”“ I should hope not , indeed ! But what you did was even worse than the others laughing and making comparisons . ”    “ I would n’t have minded so much if you had n’t made eyes at Xiangyun , ”    “ Just what did you mean by that ? That she ’d lower and cheapen herself by joking with me ? She ’s the daughter of a noble house , I ’m a nobody . If she were to joke with me and I answered back , that would be degrading for her — was that the idea ? That was certainly kind on your part . Too bad she did n’t appreciate your thoughtfulness , but flared up all the same . Then you tried to excuse yourself at my expense , calling me ‘ petty - minded and quick to take offence . ’ You were afraid she might offend me , were you ? But what is it to you if I get angry with her ? Or if she offends me ? ”    “ You shouldn’t have done that , ”    “ I’ve some questions to ask him . Come with me , both of you . We ’ll soon cure him of this nonsense . ”    “ Listen , Baoyu . Bao means that which is most precious , and yu that which is most solid . But in what way are you precious ? In what way are you solid ? ”    “ And this stupid fellow wants to dabble in metaphysics ! ”    “ The last two lines of your verse are all very well When nothing can be called a test My feet can find a place to rest . But it seems to me they still lack a little something . Let me add two more : When there ’s no place for feet to rest , That is the purest state and best . “    ” put in Baochai . “    “ Failure to answer promptly means defeat , ”    “ And even if he answered it now it would hardly count . But you must n’t talk about Chan any more . You know even less about it than the two of us yet you dabble in metaphysics . ”    “ Not into the water , ”    “ It may be clean here , but once it flows out of these grounds people empty all sorts of dirt and filth into it . The flowers would still be spoiled . I’ve a grave for flowers in that corner over there . I ’m sweeping them up and putting them in this silk bag to bury them there . In time they ’ll turn back into soil . Wouldn’t that be cleaner ? ”    “ You ’re trying to fool me again . You ’d have done better to show me in the first place . ”    " You stupid creature to frighten me so , "    " Although my aunt 's house is a second home to me , I 'm after all an outsider here . With both my parents dead , I've no one to turn to except this family . It would be foolish to start a real rumpus . "    " one word , "    " I honestly knew nothing about your coming . Baochai did drop in for a chat , but she did n't stay long . "    " Just listen to him , auntie . When Baochai won't back up his fib , he appeals to me .     " He doesn't want anything to eat , " "Come on, let's go. I'm going."     " She 's not so observant about other things , "    " But she 's most observant about other people 's trinkets . "    " So you side with the others and blame me , "    " In what way was I hasty ? "    " Now you've come up against someone with a sharper tongue than mine . Not everyone 's as simple and tongue - tied as I am , so easy to tease . "    " Look at the girl ! "    " Why didn't you give the servant these to bring too , when you sent those rings to us ? Wouldn't that have been simpler ? Now you turn up with more yourself . I thought it was something different , but it 's only the same again . How silly you are ! "    " It 's me , Qingwen . "    " Master Bao has sent you some handkerchiefs , miss . "    " Must you always be hurrying me ? "    " Whether I take it or not is none of your business . "    " observed the old lady . "    " You should go anyway for the sake of the one who kept away the mosquitoes . "  Cousin   " "  " Drag her off , quick ! Stew some slices of her flesh to go with our wine . "    " Have you all finished ? "    " Mine didn't amount to much , "    " They 're rather contrived . "    " To my mind , "    " the best line of all is ' Sunset in chill garden recalls a former visit ' which presents such a strong contrast . And ' Tossing my book aside I face a spray of autumn ' is perfect , leaving nothing more to be said about displaying chrysanthemums , so that she had to revert to the time before the flower was plucked and put in the vase . Very penetrating , very subtle . "    " If you call that a poem , "    " I can write you a hundred . "    " Mercy ! "    " A fair season , a season bereft . "    “ What does it matter ? My window can be your window . Why must you draw such distinctions as if we were strangers ? In ancient times , even strangers sometimes shared the same horse and fur coat without worrying if they got spoilt ; and look how much closer we are . ”    “ I ’m going home to rest . See you tomorrow . ”    “ She ’s no less hard - hearted , ”    “ Remember how Second Sister You died ? ”    “ What did Miss Baochai tell you to bring me ? ”    “ I don’t want it now . Put it away , ”    “ It ’s true that I studied under him , ”    “ What do you mean ? ”    “ Madam , you were always so kind , so fond of me , how can you leave me in the lurch like this ? Even if I ’m only your grand - daughter , removed by one generation , my mother was your own daughter — won’t you protect me for her sake at least ? ”    “ Are you getting up ? ”    “ It ’s already bright . How can I go on sleeping ? ”    “ What ’s the matter ? ”    “ Cousin ... ”    “ Don’t fret yourself . It ’s only right that we should come to see you as you haven’t anyone to look after you . If you ’ll just rest , take your medicine and look on the bright side of things , you ’ll gradually get well enough for us all to start the poetry club again . Would n’t that be nice ? ”    “ You want me to cheer up , ”    “ But how can I ? I shan’t live to see that day . ”    “ Dear Cousin ! ”    “ When you see the old lady , please give her my respects and tell her I ’m a bit poorly , but it ’s nothing serious she ’s not to worry . ”    “ Whom were you talking to ? ”    “ I’m all right. Don’t be such alarmists. What was that you were saying just now about someone having a pain in the heart in the middle of the night? ”“ Did you hear him talk in his sleep? ”“Don’t tell Master Bao that I’m ill. It would make him waste time, and his father would be angry.”    “ I ’m a stupid fellow , so tell me what that character like ‘ big ’ with a hook to it means , and the one that has a ‘ five ’ in it . ”    “ the one made up of ‘ big ’ and ‘ nine ’ means that you must thumb the ninth note of the lute . The hook combined with ‘ five ’ means that you must pluck the fifth string with your right hand . They ’re not characters actually but musical signs , which are very easy to follow . Then there are various methods of fingering : Whirring , stroking , plucking , damping , tapping , sliding , gliding , pushing and so forth . ”    “ It ’s not tiring but fun to discuss such things , ”    “ I ’m only afraid you may not understand . ”    “ You ’re too spoilt ! ”    “ If we all learn to play but you don’t understand , won’t that be a case of playing a lute to an .... ”    “ Baochai came over twice after moving out , yet these days even when something happens she doesn’t come . Isn’t that odd ? I wonder whether she ’ll ever come back or not ! ”    “ It ’s like fragrant osmanthus , ”    “ Quite so . ”    “ That ’s why I said it ’s like fragrant osmanthus . ”    “ You ’d better pipe down , Tanchun . ”    “ Don’t you remember the lines :    “ Don’t be so sure about that , cousin , ”    “ As the saying goes , ‘ Man is a wanderer , here today but gone tomorrow ’ . For example , how did I get here , when I ’m a southerner ? ”    “ There ’ll be congee too . ”    “ I ’d like you two to cook it , not leave it to the kitchen . ”    “ It ’s not that I think them dirty , ”    “ But all this time I’ve been unwell I’ve had to depend on them for everything . So now they may resent these special instructions about soup and congee . ”    “ She looked to me a neat girl , ”    “ Have you added fresh incense ? ”    “ Zijuan , bring Master Bao in here . ”    “ It ’s just as well not to play . Though the lute is a refined instrument , I do n’t think much of it . No one ever won wealth , nobility or long life from playing it , only grief and longing . Besides , to play , you have to memorize the score which is rather an effort . As you ’re so delicate , cousin , it seems to me you should n’t waste energy on it . ”    “Did you see aunty?”  “ Did she mention me ?     “ You haven’t been ? ”    “ I knew nothing about it at first . A couple of days ago I heard ; but I did n’t go . ”    “ What do you expect then ? ”    “ I don’t suppose that occurred to her , ”    “ But I’ve always found Baochai most understanding . ”    “ Why hasn’t Cousin Baochai come ? ”    “ Why should I go to see her ?      “ To ask Baoyu what this means . ”    “ I thought you ’d come to see Master Bao , ”    “ Why else should you come this way ? ”    “ Is Master Bao in ? ”    “ Baoyu , ”    “ Why are you ill ? ”    “ Of course ! ”    “ It ’s time for me to go now . She turned and went out , still smiling , without their assistance and walking much faster than usual . The two maids hurried after her as once out of her grandmother ’s compound she forged straight ahead . “    “ Oh , I ’m not going to die as easily as all that   “What’s happened? Who’s been annoying you?”    He was upset on account of Cousin Yingchun, I was rubbing my eyes because they itched — that’s all    I thought I heard you’d gone to school. How come you’re back so early?    After sitting here a bit you must go back to rest.    We girls don’t have to write essays,Still, when I was young and your kinsman Mr. Jia Yucun was my tutor, I read a few essays too. Some of them showed good sense, some were quite subtle. Though I didn’t altogether understand them, I thought quite highly of them. I don’t see how you can condemn them so sweepingly. Besides, If you want an official career, this is the scholarly way to go about it.    I don’t want it now. Put it away.    It’s true that I studied under him, But I’m not a boy; why should he want to see me? Besides, though he’s my uncle’s friend, my uncle’s never mentioned him to me; so it would be inappropriate to receive him.    I’m not well enough to go out. Give him my greetings and apologies    Dear aunts, please wait!    Madam, you were always so kind, so fond of me, how can you leave me in the lurch like this? Even if I’m only your grand-daughter, removed by one generation, my mother was your own daughter — won’t you protect me for her sake at least?    My mind’s made up even if I die! Tell me honestly, do you want me to leave or to stay? How can you do that!? You’d better kill me first!    My parents both died long ago and never engaged me to Baoyu, so how could such ideas occur to me?I want to sleep, but I can’t. You can go back to sleep.    Are you getting up. In that case, you may as well change the spittoon.    Why are you crying for no reason so early in the morning?That’s right. The harder I tried to sleep, the more wide-awake I feltYou want me to cheer up, But how can I? I shan’t live to see that day.When you see the old lady, please give her my respects and tell her I’m a bit poorly, but it’s nothing serious she’s not to worry.Don’t tell Master Bao that I’m ill. It would make him waste time, and his father would be angry.the one made up of ‘big’ and ‘nine’ means that you must thumb the ninth note of the lute. The hook combined with ‘five’ means that you must pluck the fifth string with your right hand. They’re not characters actually but musical signs, which are very easy to follow. Then there are various methods of fingering: Whirring, stroking, plucking, damping, tapping, sliding, gliding, pushing and so forth.It’s not tiring but fun to discuss such things, I’m only afraid you may not understand.Baochai came over twice after moving out, yet these days even when something happens she doesn’t come. Isn’t that odd? I wonder whether she’ll ever come back or not!She looked to me a neat girlLife in this world is but a speck of dust,Karma ordains all mortals’ destiny;If Karma rules, then why repine?Would that my heart were pure as the moon in the sky!I wonder whom she invoked.Why should she slap you because Master Bao is marrying Miss Baochai?   I thought you’d come to see Master Bao,“Why else should you come this way?”   Baoyu, Why are you ill?   All right, But it’s too noisy here to have any poetic inspiration   To tell you the truth. I’m the one who suggested both names. It was when we proposed names for places which hadn’t yet been given any and marked their localities. They were taken to the Palace and shown to Elder Sister who sent them to uncle, and he was delighted. He said if only he’d known he’d have asked us girls to help with the names, and he accepted them all without changing a word. Well, let’s go to concave Crystal LodgeBut bright as day the fine night scene outside.   The greybeard grabbing for a cake is mocked   The go ddess flies towards the Palace of Cold Void.  One soars on high to greet Weaving Maid and Cowherd    “Dear cousin, I promise not to tease,”  “You ought to go now.”  “You’re making this up,”  “I’ve never heard of such a hill.”  “You scoundrel!”  “I knew you were making fun of me.”  “You make fun of me and dare pretend it’s an allusion....”  “Can’t you see?”  “He mocks me, then pretends it’s an allusion.”  “Amida Buddha!”  “She’s my good sister after all. You’ve met your match now. This just shows that no one can escape retribution.”  “I thought so,”  “Thank goodness there was some¬one to keep you there, or you’d have flown here long ago.”  “Nonsense. What do I care if you go to see her or not? I’ve never asked you to amuse me either. You can leave me alone in future.”  “What I do is none of your business.”  “If I ruin my health and die, that’s my affair. Nothing to do with you.”  “I shall, so there! I’m ready to die any minute. If you’re so afraid of death, you can live to be a hundred — how about that?”  “Exactly!”  “If you carry on like this it would be better for me to die.”  “What have you come back for? You’ve got a new playmate now, someone better than I am at reading, writing and versifying, better at talking and laughing with you too. Someone who dragged you away for fear you might lose your temper. So why come back? Why not leave me to die in peace?”  “Do I want you to be less close to her? What do you take me for? It’s just that my feelings are hurt.”  “You blame other people for finding fault with you, without realizing how provoking you can be. Take today, for example. Why leave off your fox-fur cape when it’s turned so cold?”  ‘‘if you catch cold there’ll be the devil to pay.”  “The lisper loves to rattle away,”  “Fancy saying ai instead of er1 like that. I suppose, when we start dicing, you’ll be shouting one, love, three, four, five....”  “I wondered whom you meant. How could I ever presume to find fault with her?”  “I’ll kill myself first,”  “What are you doing here so early?”  “You’d better go outside if you want us to get up.  “If that’s how you feel, you’d better hire a special company to play my favourite pieces instead of expecting me to cash in on someone else’s birthday.”  “Go, then!”  “And don’t ever come back! Don’t speak to me again!”   