What are you doing here all on your own?
You stupid creature to frighten me so,
Where have you sprung from?
I can't find our young lady anywhere. Your Zijuan is looking for you too. She says the Second Mistress has sent you some tea. Let's go back to your place, shall we?
Where have you been?
The old lady is waiting for you. She wants you to go over to the other house to inquire after the Elder Master's health. You had better change quickly and go.
Good sister, let me taste the rouge on your lips!
Xiren!
Come and look at this. All these years you've been with him, yet you still haven't taught him how to behave.
I wear out my tongue talking, but you still carry on like this. What's to become of you? If you go on in this way, you'll make it impossible for us to stay here.
Why are you staring at him like that?
Don't you know Yun, the son of Fifth Sister-in-law who lives in the back lane? 
Of course. I can't think how I forgot.
I've come to have a word with Second Uncle. 
You've grown very handsome since I saw you last.
For shame!
Your son? He's four or five years older than you
What age are you? 
Eighteen.
As the proverb says. 'A grandfather in the cradle may have a grandson who leans on a stick.' I may be older than you but 'The highest mountain can't shut out the sun.' These last few years since my father died I've had no one to instruct me properly. If you don't think me too stupid to be your adopted son, Uncle Bao, that would be my great good fortune.
Hear that?
It's no joke adopting a son.
If you're free tomorrow,
Did you ever see such a monkey?
Is that nanny of yours dead that she doesn't tidy you up? With that grubby face you look a regular dunce, not like the son of a cultured family.
Just sit where you are. I've something else to say to you. 
When you get back, give my regards to your mothers. I'm so dizzy from the rumpus the girls have raised here that I won't keep you to dinner
Did all the girls come?
Where are they now?
After sitting here for a while they went off. They're at the back somewhere or other.
You said you had something to tell me, aunt. What is it?
What have I got to say to you! It was only to ask you to stay for dinner with the girls. And I've something amusing to give you to take back.
Have you any job for me yet?
Something did turn up the other day, but your aunt begged me to let Jia Qin have it. However, she said there's soon to be a lot of planting of flowers and trees in the Garden. As soon as that job comes up, she promises you can have it.
I'll just have to wait in that case. Please don't tell my aunt that I came today to ask. I'll mention it to her myself next time I see her. 
Why should I mention it? What time do I have to gossip? Tomorrow I've got to set off at the fifth watch to make the trip to Xingyi and back on the same day. Wait until the day after to come back for news---but not before the first watch, I shan't be free till then.
What brings you here at such a late hour?
I've a favour to ask you, uncle. I need some Borneo camphor and musk. Could you possibly let me have four ounces of each on credit? I'll pay you by the Moon Festival without fail.
Don't talk to me about credit.
In the second place, you're obviously up to no good but want these things to do something foolish with them. Now don't go complaining that your uncle finds fault with you each time we meet! You young people have simply no sense. If you'd just think up some way to earn a few cash to keep yourself well fed and decently dressed, how pleased I should be!
You're quite right,
When my father died I was too small to understand, but later my mother told me how grateful we should be to you for coming over to take things in hand and managing the funeral. And you know better than anyone else, uncle, that I didn't have any property or land left after my father's death which I squandered. Even the cleverest housewife can't cook a meal without rice. What do you expect me to do? You're lucky I'm not one of those thick-skinned people, for then I'd keep pestering you for three pecks of rice today, two pecks of beans tomorrow. What could you have done then, uncle?
Whatever your uncle has is yours for the asking, my boy. But as I keep telling your aunt, what worries me is that you won't use your head. Your best bet is to go to the big mansion. If you can't get to see the masters, pocket your pride and get on good terms with their stewards, and they may put some business in your way. The other day, out of town, I ran into the fourth son of your third uncle riding on a donkey with five carts behind him, taking forty of fifty novices to your family temple. His head is screwed on the right way, to get such a job.
What's the hurry?
Are you crazy?
I told you we've no rice left. All I've got for you is half a catty of noodles which I'm cooking for you now. Why pretend to be rich? If he stays he'll only go hungry.
Just buy another half catty then,
Yinjie!
Go and ask Mrs. Wang across the road to lend us twenty or thirty cash---we'll pay her back tomorrow.
Don't trouble,
Are you blind, fuck you, charging into me like that?
Hold on, old chap! It's me.
So it's Master ha. Strike me dead! Where are you off to?
Don't ask me. I've never been so snubbed in my life!
Never mind. Tell me who's been bullying you. I'll settle accounts with him for you. If anyone in the three streets or six lanes near by, no matter who he is, offends a neighbour of the Drunken Diamond, I'll see to it that his relatives are scattered and his home destroyed.
Take it easy, old chap. Listen to me.
If he weren't your uncle, wouldn't I just blast him! How maddening! Now don't worry. I've a few taels of silver here. If you want to buy something, just take it. On one condition though. All these years we've been neighbours, and everybody knows I'm a money-lender, yet you've never once asked for a loan. I don't know whether you don't want to dirty your hands having any dealings with a racketeer, or whether you're afraid of getting involved, thinking my interest too high. If so, I'm not asking now for any interest on this loan. Not for an I.O.U. either But if you're afraid you'll be lowering yourself, I won't presume to lend it. We can just go our different ways. 
Ni Er may be a rascal but he's open-handed and has the name of standing up boldly for his friends. It would be a mistake to annoy him by refusing. I'll take his silver and later pay him back double.
I know you're a real sport, old chap. I did think of approaching you, but was afraid you might ignore someone so useless, as all your friends are such bold and capable people. I thought if I asked for a loan you'd be bound to turn me down. But now since you're so generous I can't refuse. I'll send you an I. 0. U. when I get home.
How you talk! But I won't hear of it,
You spoke of 'friends.' Well then, how can I charge you interest? If I did, that wouldn't be the act of a friend. Let's cut the cackle. As you don't look down on me and this is only a paltry sum---a mere fifteen taels thirty cents -take it to buy what you need. If you insist on writing an I. O. U. I won't give you the silver but lend it to others whom I expect to pay interest.
All right,
I'll not write any I.O.U. So don't blaze up!
What you'd just said wasn't right,
It's dark now so I won't invite you to have a drink. I have some business to see to. You'd better go back. I'll trouble you to tell my family to lock up early and turn in, as I shan't be home tonight. If they want me for anything urgent, our daughter can come and fetch me tomorrow morning. They'll find me with the horse-dealer, Short-Legged Wang.
Ni Er is certainly a character! But what if he's only generous in his cups? Suppose he asks for a hundred per cent interest tomorrow?
Never mind, once that job comes my way I can pay him back double.
I was waiting for Uncle Lian in the west mansion,
Have you had your meal?
Yes, and I've kept you yours. 
Stop sweeping,
The mistress is coming out.
Where is Second Aunt going?
The old lady has sent for her,
To cut out some clothes, I fancy.
She is not too well, aunt,
What a liar you are! You wouldn't have said that if I hadn't asked about her.
May lightning strike me if I dare to tie to my seniors!
Only last night she was speaking of you, aunt. She said, 'Your aunt's delicate yet look at all she has on her hands. I don't know where she finds the energy to manage everything so well. Anyone less efficient would be quite worn out.'
Why pray, should you and your mother gossip about me like that behind my back?
The fact is that a very good friend of mine, who owns a perfumery, has bought the rank of an assistant sub-prefect and was recently appointed to a post somewhere in Yunnan. Since he is taking the whole family with him, he's decided to close the shop. He's been going through his stock, giving some things away, selling others cheap, and presenting the more valuable stuff to relatives and friends. That's how I acquired some Borneo camphor and musk. My mother and I agreed that if we tried to sell it we wouldn't be able to get the proper price, because who is there willing to spend so much on such things? Even the richest families would only want a few grams at the most. And even if we gave the stuff away, we couldn't think of anyone who deserves to use so much valuable perfume as these---in fact he may sell the stuff to someone else for next to nothing. Then I thought of you, aunt, and remembered the packets of money you’ve spent in the past on such things. This year, what with the Imperial Consort in the Palace and the Dragon-Boat Festival coming, I'm sure you'll be needing ten times the usual amount. So after thinking it over we decided the most appropriate thing to do was to make a present of it to you, aunt, as a token of esteem. This way it won't be wasted.
Take my nephew's present home and give it to Pinger
I see you have good sense. No wonder your uncle is always telling me how sensibly you talk and what tact you have.
Has uncle been talking to you about me then?
Up to your monkey-tricks again! Can't you see a visitor's come?
Has Master Bao been here today?
No, he hasn't. If you want to talk to him, I'll scout round and find out his whereabouts for you.
Brother!
Good,
I waited for a long time, but nobody came out. This is one of the girls from Happy Red Court.
Be a good girl and tell him, will you, that the Second Master from the back lane has called.
Never mind about the back lane,
If you please, sir, I think you'd better go home and come back to-morrow, I'll tell him this evening if I have a chance.
What do you mean?
He missed his nap this afternoon, so he's sure to dine early and won't be coming here this evening. Are you going to make this gentleman wait and go hungry? He'd much better go home now and come back tomorrow. Because even if someone promised to take a message, he mightn't deliver it.
Right you are. I'll come tomorrow.
No thanks,
I have some other business.
You've got a nerve, Yun, playing that trick on me! I see now why you gave me that present. You had a favour to ask. Yesterday your uncle told me you'd already approached him.
Please don't bring that up, aunt,
I'm sorry I ever asked him. If I'd know how things stood I'd have come to you in the first place, and it would all have been settled long ago. I didn't know it was no use appealing to uncle.
No wonder! So it was after failing with him that you came to me yesterday.
That's not fair, aunt. I had no such idea in my mind. If I had, wouldn't I have appealed to you yesterday? But since you know about it now, I'll bypass uncle and beg you, aunt, to show me some kindness.
What a roundabout way of doing things!
You make it hard for me. If you'd told me earlier, this little business wouldn't have taken so long. Some trees and flowers are to be planted in the Garden, and I was looking for someone to put in charge. If you'd spoken before, it could have been fixed up some time ago.
Well, you can put me in charge, aunt.
I think better not. Suppose we wait until next New Year and give you the bigger job of buying fireworks and lanterns?
Let me have this job first, dear aunt. If I do all fight in this, you can give me the other later.
You do look ahead, don't you?
All right. But I wouldn't have bothered if your uncle hadn't put in a word for you. I shall be back after breakfast, so come about noon for the money and you can start your planting the day after tomorrow.
It's all right. I don't need you.
Don't scald yourself, Master Bao. Let me do that,
Where did you spring from?
What a fright you gave me!
I was in the back yard. Didn't you hear me come in by the back door, Master Bao?
Do you work here?
Yes,
How is it, in that case, I've never seen you?
There are plenty of us you haven't seen. I'm not the only one by any means. How could you know me? I don't fetch and carry for you, or wait on you personally.
Why not?
That's asking! But I've something to report, sin Yesterday a young gentleman called Yun came to see you. I told Beiming to send him away as I thought you were busy, and asked him to come back this morning. But by then you'd already gone to call on the prince.
You've wet my skirt,
You trod on my shoe!
What were you doing in there just now?
I hadn't been in,
I couldn't find my handkerchief, so] was looking for it at the back when Master Bao called for tea. As none of you sisters was about, I went in to pour it for him. And that's when you turned up.
Shameless slut! I told you to go and hurry them with the water, but you said you were busy and made us go instead. Then you seized this chance to wait on him here yourself. You're making your way up, aren't you? Think we can't keep up with you, eh? Have a look at yourself in a mirror. Are you fit to serve Master Pao tea?
Tomorrow we'll tell the others that if he wants tea or water or anything, we needn't stir---she'll do it.
The rest of us may just as well clear oft leaving her on her own here.
Who'll be in charge of the workmen?
Some Master Yun from the back lane,
yu
Xiaohong! I've found your handkerchief for you.
Where did you find it sir?
Come here and I'll tell you.
Our watering-can's broken and hasn't been mended yet,
I want you to go and borrow one of Miss Lin’s. 
Be quiet. Don't be such a nuisance. You're only making yourself unpopular.
Don't try to fool me,
I can see what's happening. Now you're friendly with Baoyu, you mean to ignore me.
You've had too much to drink again, my son,
Row hot your face is! If you go on tossing about like this, the wine may go up to your head. Why not lie down and rest a while.
Do be nice to me, sister!
If you do that again, I'll shout,
What a dunderhead!
Huan's not fit to mix in decent company. His mother really ought to bring him up better.
Why don't you teach that spiteful brat of yours to behave himself?
Time and again I've overlooked this sort of thing, but it only makes you worse. Conceited creature!
It stings a bit but it's nothing serious,
Tomorrow if grandmother asks, I'll say I scalded myself.
She'll scold us all the same for our negligence,
There'll be a row anyway, no matter what you say.
I just wanted to see where the burn is,
Why do you have to hide it?
Does it hurt much?
Not really. I'll be all right in a couple of days. 
He'll be all right now,
Is there no way to prevent it?
Of course there is. Just do more good deeds on his behalf. The sutras tell us of a great Bodhjsattva in the west whose glory illumines all around and whose special charge it is to bring to light the evil spirits in dark places. If faithful believers worship him devoutly, their descendants are assured of peace and health and no evil spirits can get possession of them.
What offerings does this Bodhisattva require?
Nothing of any great value. Apart from incense and candles, a few catties of oil every day for the Big Lamp. For that lamp is a manifestation of the Bodhisattva. It has to be kept burning day and night.
Row much oil does it take to keep it burning for one whole day and night? If you tell me the exact amount, I should like to donate it.
There's no fixed amount, it's up to the donor. Several of the royal consorts have presented offerings of this kind in our convent. The mother of the Prince of Nanan has made a generous donation, forty-eight catties of oil a day and another catty of lampwicks, so her lamp is almost as large as a water vat. The lady of the Marquis of Jintian comes next with twenty-four catties. Other families give anything from five to three or one---it doesn't matter Some poor families who can't afford so much may just donate a quarter or half a catty, but we keep a lamp burning for them just the same. 
Of course, more can be given for parents or elders,
But if our Old Ancestress gives too much for Baoyu, it won't be good for the boy and may even spoil his luck. Five catties or seven at the most would be ample.
Make it five catties a day then,
You can collect a month's donation at a time.
May Amida Buddha the Merciful Great Bodhisattva preserve you!
In future when Baoyu goes out give his pages a few strings of cash to distribute as alms to bonzes, Taoists and the poor. 
I could do with some silk for uppers myself,
Can you spare me a few odd pieces? I don't mind what colour.
You won't find anything good in that lot,
Good things don't come my way. That's all there is. But if you don't think them too bad you're welcome to choose a couple.
The other day,
I sent over five hundred cash. Did you sacrifice to the God of Medicine for me?
Amida Buddha!
Don't worry. Just hold out till Master Huan grows up and gets an official post. Then you can do all the good works you want.
Well, well, don't talk about that!
You can see how things are. My son and I are the least and lowest in this household. Of course Baoyu is the precious dragon of the house. Mind you, he's still just a child with winning ways, so I've nothing to say if his elders dote on him. But I refuse to crawl to her
You mean the second young mistress, Madam Lian?
She's a terror, a real terror! If she doesn't end by shifting all the property here to her mother's house, I'm not a human being!
You don't have to tell me, it's plain enough,
It's kind of you to put up with it and let her have her own way. That's fine.
What else can we do, for goodness' sake? Who would have the nerve to say a word against her?
I don't want to talk like a trouble-maker, but I do think if you don't stick up for yourselves you can't very well blame others. Even if you dare not tackle her openly you could have done something in secret, instead of letting things drag on like this.
In secret? Do explain how,
I've thought of that, but there's no one capable of doing it. If you'll show me some way, I'll make it well worth your while.
Amida Buddha, don't ask me that,
What do I know about such matters? No, that would be a sin, a wicked sin.
Come on, you're always good to those in trouble. Are you going to stand by and watch that woman trample us, mother and child, to death? Or are you afraid I shan't be able to pay you?
It's right to say that I'm sorry to see you and your son bullied, but it's wrong of you to talk about paying me. Why, even if I hoped for some reward, what have you got that could tempt me?
Row can a smart woman like you be so dense?
If you know some good magic to get rid of those two, the family property's bound to come to my son. When that happens you can have anything you want.
When that happens,
and everything's in the bag, unless I've something in writing you'll just ignore me. 
That's no problem,
Though I haven't got much at the moment, I've saved a few taels of silver and I have some clothes and trinkets too. You can take some of them to be going on with. And I can write you a promissory note and, if you like, find a witness too, so that you can be sure I'll pay you in full later on.
Do you really mean that?
How could] lie to you on such a matter?
Take this first to spend on offerings. How's that?
Write the eight characters of their horoscopes on these two figures,” she whispered. 
 all you have to do. I shall do my magic at home. It's sure to work. Mind you're very careful, and don't look alarmed.
So here you are,
Her Ladyship's waiting for you.
Here comes another!
Were invitations sent out that you're here in force?
I sent you two canisters of tea the other day,
Where were you?
Oh, it had slipped my mind. Thank you very much.
It's all right but I didn't care for it much,
I don't know how the rest of you found it.
The flavour was quite delicate, but the colour wasn't too good,
That was tribute tea from Siam,
Personally, I didn't find it as good as the kind we drink every day.
I liked it,
Different people have different tastes.
In that case you can have mine,
If you really like it I've plenty more,
Fine. I'll send a maid to fetch it,
No need,
I'll have it sent round. I was going to send over to you tomorrow anyway to ask a favour.
Listen to her!
Just take a little tea from her and she starts ordering you about.
Asked a favour, you make such a fuss! Over drinking tea too. 'Drink our family's tea, a daughter-in-law to be'!
Our second sister-in-law will have her joke.
Joke?
I call it disgustingly vulgar.
Are you dreaming? What's wrong with being our daughter-in-law?
Look, isn't he handsome enough for you? Isn't his status good enough for you? Isn't his family rich enough for you'? Who could think it a bad match in any respect?
You're offended,
Come back, Daiyu! It'll spoil the fun if you go.
I can't go out,
Whatever happens, don't let my aunt come over here! Do wait a bit, Cousin Lin. I've something to tell you.
You'd better stay. You're wanted.
Aiya!
Row my head aches!
Serves you right. Buddha be praised.
I'm dying!
Their fate rests with Heaven,
Human beings are powerless. Since their disorder is quite unforeseen and no drugs can cure it, it must be the will of Heaven. We shall just have to leave them to their fate.
I am going to leave you now, he told his weeping grandmother 
Don't take it too hard, madam,
May your tongue rot, you bitch!
Who asked for your opinion? How do you know he'll suffer in the next world? Why say he's as good as gone? What good will it do you if he dies? You're dreaming! If he does die, I'll make you pay for it. You're the ones to blame for this, forcing the child to study and breaking his spirit so that the sight of his father made him as scared as a mouse chased by a cat. It's you bitches who have hounded him to his death. But don't gloat too soon -- you’ve still me to reckon with.
Who ordered coffins?
Fetch the coffin-makers here! Have them beaten to death!
Put your trust in Buddha who absolves sins,
West of the Penglai Isles in Weightless Sea.
There is no need to inquire into that, sir,
We hear there is illness in your house and have come to cure it.
Yes, two members of the family are bewitched. Have you perhaps some miraculous remedy?
Why ask us for a remedy?
You already have in your house a rare treasure capable of curing them.
It is true that my son was born with a piece of jade in his mouth,
And the inscription on it claims that it can ward off evil. But it has proved ineffective.
You do not understand the miraculous powers of that precious jade, sin It has not proved efficacious because it is confused by music, beauty, riches and lust for gain. Just bring it to me and I think we can restore its powers by incantation.
Thirteen years have passed in a twinkling since we left you at the foot of Blue Ridge Peak,
Its power has now been restored,
Buddha be praised!
What are you laughing at, Cousin Baochai?
I was thinking how much busier Buddha must be than men are. Apart from expounding the truth and saving all living creatures, he has to preserve the sick and restore them to health, as he has done with Baoyu and Xifeng who are on the mend today. And he'll have to take care of Miss Lin's marriage as well. Just think how busy he must be! Don't you find it amusing?
How horrid you all are! I can't think what end you'll come to. Instead of following the example of good people, you're learning from Xifeng to make vulgar jokes.
Are you there, sister?
I'm in luck.
I was washing clothes in the court just now when Baoyu decided to send some tea to Miss Lin, and Xiren gave me the errand. As it happened, the old lady had just sent Miss Lin some money which she was sharing out among the maids. When she saw me she gave me two handfuls of cash -- how much it is I don't know. Will you took after it for me?
Five, ten, fifteen...
How have you been feeling recently?
Take my advice and go home for a couple of days. Get a doctor to see you and prescribe some medicine, and that should set you right.
What an idea!
I'm perfectly all right. Why should I go home?
I know what, then. Miss Lin's so delicate, she's always taking medicine. Ask her for some. That would do just as welt.
Nonsense. You don't take medicine at random like that.
Well, you can't go on like this. All your appetite's gone -- what's to become of you?
What does it matter? The sooner I die the better
How can you say such things?
You don't understand how I feel.
Well, I don't blame you,
Things are difficult here. Just take yesterday, for example. The old lady said everyone worked so hard while Baoyu was ill that, now he's better and all the vows have been paid, each one would be rewarded according to grade. I don't mind if the young ones like myself are left out, but why should you be left out? It isn't fair I wouldn't have begrudged Xiren ten times as much either--she deserves it. After all, to be honest, which of us can compare with her? Look how careful and conscientious she always is. And even if she weren't, she couldn't be passed over. What annoys me is having people like Qingwen and Yixian counted as top grade and boosted up just because their parents are senior servants here. Don't you call it maddening?
It's hardly worth being angry with them,
The proverb says 'Even the longest feast must break up at last.' Who's going to stay here for life? A few more years and we'll all go our different ways. When that time comes who will worry about anyone else?
That's true, of course,
Yet only yesterday Baoyu was talking about how he's going to rearrange the rooms and the clothes he means to have made, as if we had hundreds of years to put up with here.
Here are two patterns for you to trace,
Who are they from?
Can't you finish what you have to say before running away? Have you steamed wheatcakes waiting which may get cold?
They're from Yixian,
Where did I put that new brush the other day?
I can t remember.... Oh, of course, Yixian borrowed it the evening before last.
Do you mind fetching it for me?
Fetch it yourself. Xiren is waiting for me to lift some cases for her
If she were, could you stay here chatting? You only say she's waiting because I asked you a favour, you little beast!
Where are you off to, Mrs. Li?
What brings you here?
Tell me, why has he taken such a fancy to this tree-planter Yun or Yu, whatever his name is? Nothing would serve but that I go and fetch the fellow. When word of this gets to the Master, there'll be trouble.
But do you have to give in to all his whims, nanny?
What else can I do?
If that young man has any sense, he won't come. 
He's not crazy. Why shouldn't he?
Well, if he does come, you ought to bring him in with you. Not leave him to go blundering round on his own. 
Rave I time to wait for him? I just gave him the message. I'll send one of the girls of matrons to show him the way.
To fetch Master Yun,
So that's why it's called Happy Red Court,
The name comes from that inscription.
Come on in. Imagine my forgetting you for two or three months!
After I saw you that month and invited you to my study,
a whole lot of things happened to make it slip my mind.
That was my misfortune,
And then you fell ill, uncle. Have you recovered completely?
Yes, thank you. I heard you were quite worn out after all those days' hard work.
That's just as it should be. Your recovery, uncle, is a blessing to our whole family.
How can I trouble you to pour the tea for me, sister?
Don't treat me as a guest in my uncle's rooms. Let me pour tea myself.
Sit down, sit down,
Why stand on ceremony with the maids?
I mustn't forget my manners before the sisters in your apartments, uncle.
Drop in any time you're free,
That girl who spoke to you on our way in,
isn't she called Xiaohong?
That's right. Why do you ask?
She said something to you about a handkerchief. As it happens, I've picked one up.
She's asked me several times whether I've seen her handkerchief. As if I had time to bother about such things! She asked me again today and promised to give me something if I found it. I'm not making this up you heard her for yourself in front of Alpinia Park. If you've found it, sir, do give it to me and we'll see what thanks I get.
All right, here you are,
But mind you let me know what reward you get. No cheating!
You mustn't fall asleep again,
If you're feeling bored, why not go out for a stroll?
I would.
Get up, quick!
Hut where shall I go? I'm thoroughly fed up.
You'll feel better once you're out. If you just stay moping here, you'll only get more fed up.
So you're at home, uncle,
I thought you'd gone out.
What mischief are you up to now?
Why shoot at those harmless creatures?
I've finished my lessons and I've nothing to do. I thought I'd practise archery.
I suppose you won't stop,
till you've knocked out your teeth.
Why 'Day after day a drowsy dream of love'?
Who's asleep?
Our mistake, miss.
What do you mean by coming in when people are asleep?
What was that you were saying just now?
I didn't say anything.
 said Baoyu, 
What good tea have we got?
If you want good tea, better wait till Xiren comes.
Pay no attention to him,
First go and get me some water.
He's a guest, so of course I must get him tea before I fetch you water.
What's that you said?
I didn't say anything, did I?
So this is your latest diversion,
All the dirty talk you hear outside, you repeat to me; and any disgusting books you read, you quote to make fun of me. A laughing-stock for you gentlemen, that's what I've become!
Dear cousin, it was very wrong of me, but please don't tell!
May it blister my mouth and rot my tongue if I dare say such things again.
Quick,
Do you know why my father wants me?
Hurry up, sir,
At any rate you'll have to go. You'll find out why when you get there.
If I hadn't said your father wanted you, you'd never have come so quickly,
Don't blame this young rascal,
I put him up to it.
I don't mind your fooling me,
but why pretend to he my father? Shall I go and ask your mother what she thinks of your conduct?
You wretch!
You deserve to drop dead.
What are you still kneeling there for, you treacherous dog?
I wouldn't have disturbed you,
but the third of the fifth month will be my birthday. And Cheng Rixing the curio dealer managed -- goodness only knows where -- to get hold of a fresh, crisp lotus root this thick and this long, a huge melon this size, a fresh sturgeon this long and a whopping great Siamese pig smoked with fragrant cedar which came as tribute from Siam. They must have been hard to come by, such presents, eh? The fish and the pig are just expensive rarities, but heaven knows how they managed to grow a lotus root and melon of that size. I gave some at once to my mother, then sent portions to your old lady and your parents; but I've still quite a bit left. To hog it all myself might bring me bad luck; and after thinking it over I decided you were the only one fit to share it. So I came over specially to invite you. Luckily a singing-boy has just turned up too. Why don't we make a day of it together?
I haven't yet sent you over a birthday present, but here I am enjoying myself at your expense,
That's right,
What are you planning to send me?
I haven't anything really. The money, clothes, food and stuff like that in my place aren't mine to give. The only thing I could give you of my own would be a scroll of my calligraphy or painting. 
Talking of painting,
reminds me of an erotic picture I saw in someone's house the other day. Really superb it was. I didn't read all the inscriptions carefully, just noticed the artist's name: Geng Huang. The picture was marvellous.
Are you sure the name was Geng Huang?
Of course.
It wasn't these two characters? They're not very different.
That must be it. Mr Xue's eyes may have been blurred at the time.
Who cares whether the fellow's name means 'sweet-silver' or 'nut-silver'?
Mr. Feng
Fine!
You don't go out, just enjoy yourselves at home.
We haven't seen you for some time,
Is your father well?
Very well, thank you. But my mother recently contracted a chill and has been out of sorts for two days.
Been fighting again?
Who left his mark on your face?
Ever since I beat up Colonel Qiu's son I've made a point of keeping my temper. No more fist-fights for me. This happened the other day out hunting on Iron-Net Mountain, when my falcon caught me on the cheek with its wing.
When was that?
We left on the twenty-eighth of the third month and only got back the day before yesterday.
No wonder I didn't see you when I called on Shen on the third, or was it the fourth. I meant to ask where you were but I forgot. Did you go alone on this trip or with your father?
With my father, of course. I couldn't get out of it. Do you think me crazy enough to prefer roughing it to drinking with you and listening to songs? This time, though, something lucky turned up in my bad luck.
You must excuse me. Really I should drink a few cups with you, but I've some very urgent business today to report to my father.
Don't be ridiculous. You ought to know me better,
I really can't stay. But if you insist, get me a big cup and I'll drain two cups with you.
Do tell us before you leave what's your good luck in a stretch of bad,
I can't go into the details today. But I promise to invite you air to a special party when we can have a good talk. I've a favour to ask you too.
You're just whetting our curiosity,
In ten days at the latest, maybe eight.
We were waiting here on tenterhooks while you had a good time,
You might at least have sent word.
I meant to, but when Feng turned up I forgot.
So you've been treated to those delicacies of ours,
Surely you and your family must have tasted them before us, cousin,
Yesterday my brother did urge me to try them, but I didn't. I told him to keep them for others. I know it's not in my stars to deserve such dainties.
They've all gone to bed,
Come back tomorrow.
It's me. Open the gate!
I don't care who you are,
Master Bao's given orders that no one's to be admitted.
Although my aunt's house is a second home to me, I'm after all an outsider here. With both my parents dead, I've no one to turn to except this family. It would be foolish to start a real rumpus.
Baoyu must be angry with me, thinking I told on him,
But I never did! You ought to investigate before flying into a temper like this. You can shut me out today, but shall we not see each other still tomorrow?
Why isn't Cousin Lin here?
Surely the lazy creature isn't still sleeping?
I'll go and rouse her,
The rest of you wait here and I'll soon bring her.
Baoyu and Daiyu grew up under one roof,
They're so free and easy together, they don't care how they tease each other or show their feelings. And Daiyu's rather jealous and petty-minded. If I follow Baoyu in, he may not like it and she may resent it. I'd better go back.
Look at this handkerchief. If it's the one you lost, you can have it. If not, I'll take it back to Master Yun.
Of course it's mine. Let me have it.
What thanks am I going to get? You don't expect me to do this for nothing, do you?
Don't worry. I promised you something, I won't cheat you.
I should hope not, after I've brought it back to you. But how are you going to thank the man who found it?
Don't be silly. He's a young gentleman. It's only right he should return what he finds. How could I reward him?
If you don't, what am I to say to him? Besides, he told me repeatedly he wouldn't let me give you this unless you offered him some reward.
All right,
Give him this from me to thank him. But swear you won't let on to a soul.
If I do, may a boil break out in my mouth and may I die a miserable death!
Goodness! We've been so busy talking, what if someone's eavesdropping outside? We'd better open the windows. Then if people see us they'll assume we're just chatting. And if anyone comes near we'll see her and can change the subject.
No wonder they say wicked people have always been cunning!
Where are you hiding, Daiyu?
Where have you hidden Miss Lin?
Miss Lin? We haven't seen her,
Just now, from the other bank, I saw her crouching here dabbling in the water. I meant to take her by surprise but she spotted me coming and dashed off to the east. And now she's disappeared. Are you sure she's not hiding in there?
She must have popped into some cave in the rocks,
Heaven help us!
If Miss Lin was here she must have overheard us.
What shall we do?
What if she did hear? This is none of her business.
It wouldn't have been so bad Miss Xue overhearing. But Miss Lin's narrow-minded and likes to make cutting remarks. If she heard, and gives us away, what shall we do?
Can I do anything for Your Ladyship?
I didn't bring my maids with me today,
Hut now I've remembered something I want done. Do you think you could deliver a message correctly?
Just give me your instructions, madam. If I don't get the message right and hold up your business, you can punish me.
I'm attached to Master Bao's apartments.
Know where the Second Mistress has gone?
I didn't notice.
You'll find her with Madam Li Wan, I think,
Still prancing about!
You haven't watered the flowers, fed the birds or lit the tea-stove in our courtyard, yet you gad about outside.
Yesterday Master Bao said the flowers needn't be watered today -- once every other day would do,
And what about the tea-stove?
It's not my turn today, so don't ask me whether there's any tea or not.
Just listen to the way she talks,
You'd all better keep quiet and let her fool about.
Who says I was fooling about?
I've been on an errand for the Second Mistress.
No wonder!
Now that she's climbed to a higher branch of the tree, she won't pay any more attention to us. Our lady may have thrown her a word or two, without even knowing her name, and she's already eaten up with pride. What's so marvellous about running a little errand? We shall see if anything comes of it or not. If she's all that clever she'd better clear out of this Garden and stay perched on the top of the tree.
Sister Pinger said, madam, that as soon as Your Ladyship left she put away the money; and when Zhang Cai's wife came for it, she weighed it in her presence and gave it to her.
Sister Pinger asked me to tell Your Ladyship: Just now Lai Wang came to ask for your instructions before setting out to the mansion where you sent him, and she sent him off after explaining Your Ladyship's wishes.
How did she explain my wishes?
She said, 'Our lady sends her compliments to Her Ladyship. Our Second Master is away from home now, so Her Ladyship shouldn't worry over a couple of days' delay. When the Fifth Mistress is better, our lady will come with her to see Her Ladyship. The Fifth Mistress sent a servant the other day to report that our lady's sister-in-law had inquired after Her Ladyship in a letter, and hoped her sister-in-law here would oblige her with two longevity pills. If Her Ladyship has any to spare, please send them to our lady, and the next person to go that way will deliver them to her sister-in-law.'
Mercy on us!
I've lost track of all these ladies and mistresses.
I don't blame you. Xifeng smiled. 
 She turned to Xiaohong. 
 she turned to Li Wan, 
But I like this girl,
Admittedly, her two messages weren't long, but she spoke to the point.
You must come and work for me. I'll make you my adopted daughter and see that you turn out all right.
What's so funny?” demanded Xifeng. 
That wasn't why I laughed,
1 laughed because Your Ladyship has got my generation wrong. My mother's Your Ladyship's adopted daughter, yet now you talk of me as a daughter too.
Who's your mother?
Don't you know her?
This child is Lin Zhixiao's daughter.
You don't say so!
Why, you can't get a word out of Lin Zhixiao and his wife, not even if you stick an awl into them. I've always said they were a well-matched couple, deaf muses the pair of them. Who could have believed they'd produce such a clever daughter? How old are you?
I was first called Hongyu,
Disgusting! You'd think there was something special about 'yu', the way everybody wants that name. So in that case you can work for me. You know, sister-in-law, I told her mother, 'Lai Da's wife has her hands full, and anyway she's no idea who's who in this household. You choose a couple of good maids for me.' And she promised that's what she'd do. But instead, she sends this daughter of hers somewhere else. Did she think the girl would have a bad time with me?
How suspicious you are,
This child was already here by then. Row can you blame her mother?
Willing? As if that were for us to say! But if only I could work for Your Ladyship, I'd learn some manners and get more experience.
Dear cousin, did you tell on me yesterday?
You had me worrying the whole night long.
When you've tidied the rooms, close the screen windows,
As soon as the big swallows come back, you can let down the curtains. Hold them in place by moving the lions against them. And cover the censer once the incense is lit.
Surely what happened yesterday can't account for this?
And I came back too late in the evening to see her again, so how else can I have offended her?
How are you, brother?
How are you, sister?
Has father sent for you these last few days?
No, he hasn't.
Oh, I thought someone told me he sent for you yesterday.
That someone must have misheard. He didn't.
These last few months I've saved a dozen strings of cash. r want you to take them. Next time you go out you can buy me some good calligraphy and paintings, or some amusing toys.
In my strolls through the squares and temple markets inside and outside the city,
I haven't seen anything novel or really well made. Nothing but curios of gold, jade, bronze or porcelain, which would be out of place here. Or things like silk textiles, food and clothing.
That's not what I mean. No, but things like you bought me last time: little willow baskets, incense-boxes carved out of bamboo roots, and tiny clay stoves. They were so sweet, I just loved them! But the other people fell in love with them too and grabbed them as if they were treasures.
If that's what you want, those things are dirt cheap. Just give five hundred cash to the pages and they'll fetch you two cartloads.
Those fellows have no taste. Please choose some things which are simple without being vulgar, and genuine instead of artificial. Do get me a whole lot more, and I'll make you another pair of slippers. I'll put even more work into them than last time. How's that?
That reminds me.
Did you ever hear such nonsense?
Is it my job to make shoes? Doesn't Huan have his fair share of clothes, shoes and socks, not to mention a whole roomful of maids and servants? What has she got to complain of? Who's she trying to impress? If I make a pair of slippers in my spare time, I can give them to any brother I choose and no one has any right to interfere. She's crazy, carrying on like that.
Still, it's natural, you know, for her to see things rather differently.
Let me tell you another ridiculous thing too. Two days after I gave you that money to buy knick-knacks, she complained to me she was hard up. I paid no attention, of course. But after my maids left the room, she started scolding me for giving my savings to you instead of to Huan. I didn't know whether to laugh or lose my temper. So I left her and went to Her Ladyship.
Haven't you talked long enough? It's clear you're brother and sister, the way you leave other people out in the cold to discuss your private affairs. Aren't we allowed to hear a single word?
She's too angry even to gather up the blossom,
I'll join you later,
Some maid's been badly treated and come here to cry,
I wonder which of them it is.
Everyone laughs at me for being foolish. Is there someone else equally foolish?
So that's who it is.
wretched
Do stop!
I know you won't look at me, but let me just say one word. After that we can part company for good.
one word,
Out with it.
Would you listen if I said two words?
Why are things so different now from in the past?
What do you mean by 'now' and 'the past'?
Wasn't I your playmate when you first came?
Anything that pleased me was yours, cousin, for the asking. If I knew you fancied a favourite dish of mine, I put it away in a clean place till you came. We ate at the same table and slept on the same bed. I took care that the maids did nothing to upset you; for I thought cousins growing up together as such good friends should be kinder to each other than anyone else. I never expected you to grow so proud that flow you have no use for me while you're so fond of outsiders like Baochai and Xifeng. You ignore me or cut me for three of four days at a time. I've no brothers or sisters of my own -- only two by a different mother, as well you know. So I'm an only child like you, and I thought that would make for an affinity between us. But apparently it was no use my hoping for that. There's nobody I can tell how unhappy I am.
Then why did you tell your maids not to open the gate when I called last night?
Whatever do you mean?
If I did such a thing, may I die on the spot.
Hush! Don't talk about dying so early in the morning. Did you or didn't you? There's no need to swear.
I honestly knew nothing about your coming. Baochai did drop in for a chat, but she didn't stay long.
Yes,
I suppose your maids felt too lazy to stir and that made them answer rudely.
That's it, for sure. I shall find out who it was when I get back and give them a good scolding.
Those maids of yours deserve one, although of course that's not for me to say. It doesn't matter their offending me, but think what trouble there'll be if next time they offend your precious Baochai!
Has Doctor Bao's medicine done you any good, child?
Not much,
The old lady wants me to try Doctor Wang's medicine.
You don't know, madam,
Cousin Lin suffers from an inherited weakness and has such a delicate constitution that she can't stand the least little chill. All she needs is a couple of doses to clear this up. Some pills would be best for her.
The other day the doctor recommended some pills,
I can guess,
Just ginseng tonic pills.
That wasn't it.
Eight-treasure-leonurus pills then?
No, it wasn't any of those. All I can remember are the words ‘guardian angel.’
I've never heard of guardian-angel pills. If there are guardian-angel pills there must be Bodhisattva powders too.
Were they heavenly-king-fortifying-the-heart pills?
That's it,
Row muddle-headed I've grown. 
You're not muddle-headed, madam,
Those angels and Bodhisattvas have muddled you.
That's enough from you,
It's time your father gave you another beating.
My father wouldn't beat me for that.
Since we know the name we'll send out tomorrow to buy some.
Those remedies are useless,
If you'll give me three hundred and sixty taels of silver, I'll make up some pills for my cousin and I guarantee she'll be cured before they're all taken.
Have some sense! What pills could be so expensive?
It's true. This is a unique prescription. I won't go into all the strange ingredients now, but one's the afterbirth of a firstborn child, another's man-shaped ginseng roots with leaves on them -- these alone would cost more than three hundred and sixty taels. Then there's polygonum the size of a tortoise, pachyma from the root of a thousand-year-old pine, and other things of the same sort. These are nothing unusual, just ordinary herbs; but the chief ingredient would give you a shock. Cousin Xue Pan pestered me for more than a year to give him this prescription. Even then, it took him more than two years and about a thousand taels of silver to have it made up. If you don't believe me, madam, ask Cousin Baochai.
I know nothing and never heard a word about it. So don't refer auntie to me.
After all she's good girl,
Baochai wouldn't tell a lie.
What I said is in fact true. Yet you accuse me of lying.
Baoyu isn't fibbing,
So I had to give him a couple of my pearl trinkets. He wanted three feet of red gauze from the Palace too. Said he meant to grind the pearls into a fine powder to be mixed with other powdered ingredients.
Buddha be praised! The sun shines at last in this room.
This is actually only a makeshift, madam. The real prescription calls for pearls and gems worn by wealthy ladies of old from ancient tombs. But we can hardly go and dig up graves, can we? So we have to make do with pearls worn by living people.
Amida Buddha!
The idea! Even if there are pearls in old tombs, how can you dig them up and disturb the bones of people dead for all those hundreds of years? No medicine made that way could be any good.
You heard what's been said. Would my Cousin Xifeng back me up if I were lying?
Just listen to him, auntie. When Baochai won't back up his fib, he appeals to me.
Yes, Baoyu is good at bullying you,
You don't know the reason, madam.
Even when Cousin Baochai lived with her family she didn't know her brother's doings; so she knows even less now that she's in the Garden. But just now cousin Daiyu, sitting at the back, drew a finger across her cheek to shame me because she thought I was fibbing.
Won't you wait for Master Bao?
He doesn't want anything to eat,
Come on, let's go. I'm going.
I'll eat here with you, madam,
No, no,
This is one of my meatless days, so run along and have a proper meal.
I'll have vegetarian food with you.
You'd better go, 
Even it you don't want anything to eat you should keep Daiyu company, she's not feeling happy. 
Never mind her,
She'll be all right presently.
Why are you always in such a hurry, brother?
Even rushing through your meals and tea.
Let him finish quickly and join Cousin Lin,
Why should he fool around here?
You've turned up just at the right time,
Come on in. Come in and write a few words for me.
Forty rolls of red flowered satin; forty rolls of satin with serpent designs; a hundred rolls of Imperial gauze of different colours; four gold necklaces. 
What is all this?
It sounds neither like an account nor a list of presents. How am I to write it?
Just put it down. So long as I know what it means that'll do.
There's something else I want, if you're agreeable,
I'd like that maid called Hongyu in your place to come and work for me. I'll find you a few others instead later All right?
My place is swarming with people,
Take any of them you like. You don't have to ask.
In that case, I'll send someone to fetch her. 
Do.
The old lady is waiting for me,
You can tell me when I come back.
Well,
what good things did your mother give you to eat?
Nothing special, but I had one bowl of rice more than usual. Where's Cousin Lin?
Why, what are you doing?
Stooping like that just after a meal will bring your headache back.
That corner of the silk is still rather crumpled,
Better iron it again.
Never mind it.
It'll be all right presently.
How clever you're getting,
even able to cut out clothes. 
This is just another specious way of fooling people,
Let me tell you something funny,
Cousin Bao's annoyed with me because I denied knowing anything about that medicine.
Never mind him. He'll be all right presently.
The old lady wants to play cards and there aren't enough people. Won't you take a hand?
Of course, that's what I came for.
You had better leave. There's a tiger here who might eat you. 
Why don't you take a stroll before doing any more?
Who told her to do this?
Whoever it was,
It's none of Master Bao's business.
Buddha be praised! I hope I'm dead before you come back.
Master Bao is in the library waiting for his outdoor clothes,
Do you mind going in to tell them?
You farting fool!
Master Bao lives in the Garden now and so do all his attendants. Why bring the message here?
Of course.
How idiotic of me!
Your remark the other day about good fortune and bad has been on my mind ever since,
So as soon as your summons arrived I hurried oven.
Row trusting you all are.
That was just an excuse to get you over here, for otherwise I was afraid you might decline. Fancy your taking it so seriously.
Sing a nice new song for me,
and I'll drink a whole jarful of wine. How about it? 
All fight, now drink ajar.
That wasn't worth a whole jar,
Let's hear something better.
Listen,
If you drink so fast, you'll soon be drunk and we shan't have any fun. Suppose I empty a goblet first and we play a new game of forfeits? Anyone who doesn't do as I say will have to drain ten goblets in succession and leave the table to wait on the others.
Now,
you must all make four lines about a girl's sorrow, her worry, her joy and her delight, explaining the reason for each. Then you must drink a cup of wine, sing a new popular song, and recite either a line from an old poem or couplet, or a saying from the Four Books or the Five Classics connected with some object on the table.
What are you afraid of?
Don't you drink every day? Aren't you even up to me? I'm going to join in. If you do all right, well and good; if not, it won't kill you to drink a few cups. Or would you rather refuse and have to drink ten goblets and wait on the rest of us?
The girl's delight: Swinging in a light spring gown.
Good!
No good,
He ought to pay a forfeit.
Why?
Because I didn't understand a word.
Be quiet and think out your lines. If you don't, you'll be the one to pay a forfeit.
You were off beat,
'Rain buffets the pear blossom and the door is closed,
The girl's delight: Catching crickets on the sly in the garden.
'A cock crows at the moon by the rustic inn,
The girl's sorrow: Will she find a husband to support her?
Why child,
with Master Xue here, what have you to worry about?
Don't muddle her,
Don't muddle her.
The girl's worry: Will the bawd always beat and scold her?
The other day when I saw that bawd of yours, I told her not to beat you. 
If you interrupt again,
You've been warned. Not another word now!
The girl's delight: The pipes hushed, she plays a stringed instrument.
The peach trees are in blossom.
All right,
Here goes. The girl’s sorrow... 
What is she sad about?
Go on.
The girl's sorrow... 
The girl's sorrow: She marries a queer. 
What's so funny?
Is that wrong? Wouldn't a girl be sad if the man she married insisted on being a bugger?
The girl's worry...
Well, what's the worry?
The girl's worry: A big gorilla springs out of her boudoir.
Make him pay the forfeit. The last could just pass but this is impossible.
As long as he rhymes it, that's good enough.
If the man in charge passes it,
why should you lot kick up such a fuss?
The next two lines are more difficult,
Suppose I do them for you?
The girl's joy: Rising late after her wedding night.
Row poetic he's growing!
The girl's delight: A good fuck.
For shame! Hurry up with your song. 
What sort of song do you call this?
That's enough. Shut up!
We'll let you off. You're just holding up other people.
The girl's delight: Husband and wife in harmony.
I know very few poems, but luckily I remember a line of a couplet I read yesterday which happens to fit an object on the table.
'When the fragrance of flowers assails men we know the day is warm. '
You've gone too far!
You must pay a forfeit. How can you mention a treasure that isn't here?
What treasure?
Don't try to deny it. Repeat that line again.
Isn't Xiren a treasure?
How many cups should we fine you, cousin, for this?
All right. I'll pay the penalty.
You're not to blame,
You didn't know.
When you've time, do come and see me. By the way, I've something to ask you. In your honourable company there's an actor called Qiguan who's known all over the country, but I've never had a chance to see him.
That's my professional name.
What luck!
You certainly live up to your reputation. How can I mark this first meeting?
What have I done to deserve this?
All right, I've something unusual here which I only put on for the first time this morning. It's still quite new. A small token of my devotion.
This was part of the tribute from the Queen of Qianxiang,
Worn in summer, it will perfume your skin and stop you from perspiring. I was given it by the Prince of Beijing yesterday, and I put it on for the first time this morning. I wouldn't dream of giving it to anybody else. Would you mind letting me have your own in exchange, sir?
Caught in the act!
What are you up to?
Leaving your wine and slipping away from the feast! Come on, let's see what you've got there.
Nothing,
I must have lost it out riding,
Now that you've got a better sash, will you return mine?
I'll get you another,
I know what you've been up to again.
You've no right to give my things to those low creatures. You should know better.
You wouldn't know if a thief came in the night,
Look at your pants.
I'm not interested in such trash. Take it away. 
Did anything happen yesterday?
Madam Lian sent over for Xiaohong. The girl wanted to wait for your return but 1 didn't think that necessary, so I took it upon myself to send her away.
Quite right. I knew. There was no need for her to wait.
And yesterday the Imperial Consort sent the eunuch Xia here with a hundred and twenty taels to be spent on masses, theatricals and sacrifices on the first three days of the month at Ethereal Abbey. She wants Lord Zhen to take all the gentlemen there to burn incense and worship Buddha. She also sent over presents for the Dragon-Boat Festival.
The old lady had an extra sandalwood Ruyi sceptre and agate pillow. Lord Zheng, Lady Wang and Madam Xue each had an extra sandalwood sceptre. You got the same as Miss Xue, while Miss Lin and the three other young ladies were given fans and beads, nothing else. Madam Li Wan and Madam Xifeng each had two rolls of gauze, two rolls of silk, two aromatic pouches and two pills from the Palace.
How can that be?
Why did Miss Xue get the same as me and not Miss Lin? There must be some mistake.
Impossible. Each share was labelled when they were brought yesterday. Yours went to the old lady's apartments, and when I fetched it she said you must go to the Palace at the fifth watch tomorrow to express your thanks.
Take these things to Miss Lin,
Tell her this is what I got yesterday and she can keep anything she fancies.
Miss Lin says she received presents too; she wants you to keep yours. 
Why didn't you pick any of my things, as I asked?
I'm not cut out for such good fortune,
I can't compare with Cousin Baochai and her gold and jade. I'm just as common as any plant or tree.
Other people may talk about gold and jade,
but if such an idea ever crossed my mind, may Heaven and Earth destroy me! May I never again be reborn in human form!
What nonsense,
Why make such oaths for no reason? Who cares about your gold and jade anyway?
It's hard to tell you all that's in my heart, but you'll understand some day. You're the closest person in the world to me after my grandmother and my own parents. I sweart there's no one else.
There's no need to swear I know I have a place in your heart. But whenever you see her; you forget all about me.
That's your imagination. I'm not like that.
Why did you appeal to me when Baochai refused to backup your fib yesterday? If I'd refused, goodness knows what you'd have done.
Why are you standing there in a draught?
You know how easily you catch cold.
Where is this silly goose? I'd like to see it.
Who's that?
Sorry, a slip of the hand. Cousin Baochai wanted to see the silly goose, and while pointing it out to her I hit you by mistake.
It's too hot for me,
Besides, there aren't any operas I haven't seen. I'm not going.
It's cool there with tall buildings on either side,
If we're going I shall send servants a few days in advance to clear out the Taoist priests and clean the place up, then screen it off and close it to the general public. It will be rather pleasant then. I've already told Lady Wang. If you won't go I mean to go alone. Things have been so boring recently; besides, even when we have shows at home, I can't watch them in comfort.
In that case, I'll go along with you.
If our Old Ancestress is going as well,
so much the better -- only I shan't be free to enjoy myself.
See how our Old Ancestress dotes on me!
You must go, and your mother too,
If you stayed at home you'd only sleep the whole day long.
What good spirits she's in. Go and tell them in the Garden that any of the young ladies who would like an outing may accompany the old lady on the first.
I don't want you in with me.
Look out! you're sitting on my lady's things.
Don't tread on my flowers!
You've gone and broken my fan.
Now, girls, don't make such laughing-stocks of yourselves out in the street.
Look out where you're going, little bastard!
Catch him! Beat him!
What's happened?
It's an acolyte who trims the wicks,
He didn't get out of the way in time and was rushing wildly about.
Bring him here. Don't frighten him,
Children of humble families are well sheltered by their parents, they have never seen anything so grand before. It would be too bad to frighten him out of his wits -- his father and mother would never get over it.
Go and bring him gently here.
Don't be afraid,
How old are you?
Poor little thing!
Take him away, Zhen, and give him some cash to buy sweetmeats. Don't let anyone bully him.
Where is the steward?
Steward!
Although this is a large place,
there are more people here than we expected. Keep those you need in this courtyard, send those you don't need to the other, and post some boys at the two main gates and side gates ready to carry out orders and run errands. You know, don't you, that all the ladies have come today, so not a single outsider must be allowed in.
Yes, sir. Right, sir. Very good, sir,
You may go. Wait! Why isn't Rong here?
Look at him,
While I swelter here he finds somewhere to cool off.
Ask him what he means by it,
If His Lordship can stand the heat, why should you go to cool off?
What are you standing there for?
Hurry up and gallop home to tell your mother and wife that the old lady and all the young ladies are here. They should come at once and wait on them.
Why was this not thought of before? Now I'm the one to take the brunt.
Are your hands tied that you can't bring me a horse?
In view of my special position I ought to attend the ladies inside,
But it's such a hot day, with so many young ladies here too, that I don't like to presume without your permission. I'd better wait here in case the old lady may want me to show her round.
Saint of the Great Illusion
Man of Final Truth
Immortal
Grandfather Zhang has come to pay his respects.
Bring him here,
Buddha of Infinite Longevity!
I hope the Old Ancestress has been enjoying good fortune, long life, health and peace, and that all the ladies and young ladies have been happy too. I haven't called on you to pay my respects, but Your Ladyship looks in better health than ever. 
And are you well, Old Immortal?
Thanks to my share in your good fortune, yes. I keep feeling concerned about your grandson, though. How has he been keeping all this time? Not long ago, on the twenty-sixth of last month, we celebrated the birthday of the Prince who Shades the Sky. As few people would be coming and everything was quite clean, I sent to invite Master Bao to come; but they told me he wasn't at home.
It's true, he wasn't.
How do you do, Grandad Zhang?
Yes,
he looks as if he's putting on weight now.
He may look all right but he's really delicate. And his father is ruining his health, the way he keeps the boy poring over his books.
I've seen some of his calligraphy and poems in different places recently. They're so remarkably good I can't understand why His Lordship should still complain he's idle. I'd say he's doing all right.
To me, with his face and figure, his bearing and way of talking, Master Bao seems the image of the old duke.
You're right,
Of all my sons and grandsons, Baoyu is the only one who takes after his grandfather.
Of course, sir, your generation were born too late to see the duke. I don't suppose even Lord She and Lord Zheng remember too well what he looked like.
The other day in a certain family I saw a young lady of fifteen, a pretty girl. It seems to me time to arrange a match for the young master. And that young lady would do, as far as looks, intelligence and family go. But not knowing how Your Ladyship feels, I didn't like to do anything rash. I can go and broach the subject if Your Ladyship gives the word.
A bonze told us this boy isn't fated to marry too early,
So we'll wait until he's older to settle things. But by all means keep your eyes open. Riches and rank are immaterial. Only if you find a girl pretty enough, come and let us know. Even if the family's poor it doesn't matter, we can always let them have a few taels of silver. But good looks and a sweet dispostition are hard to find.
Grandfather Zhang, you still haven't brought our daughter her new talisman, yet you had the nerve to send round the other day to ask for yellow satin. And I didn't like to make you lose face by not giving it.
Why didn't you bring it in your hands?
Why use a tray?
My hands are too dirty, madam. A tray seemed cleaner.
You gave me quite a turn when you brought in that tray,
I didn't know you had the talisman on it, I thought you'd come to ask for donations.
What a monkey you are!
Aren't you afraid of going to the Tongue-Cutting Hell?
I've done him no harm,
Why is he always warning me that unless I do more good deeds I shan't live long?
I brought the tray for two reasons,
Not to collect donations, but to borrow Master Bao's jade to show my Taoist friends and disciples.
If that's the case,
there's no reason why an old man like you should run around. Take Baoyu out to show it to them all, then send him back. Wouldn't that save trouble?
No, Your Ladyship doesn't understand. I may be more than eighty, but thanks to your shared good fortune I'm hale and hearty; and there are so many of them out there that the place stinks. Master Bao, not being used to this heat, might be over-powered by the stench. And that would be too bad.
Everyone felt most obliged to me for the chance to see Master Bao's jade, which they think most wonderful,
They've nothing else worth offering, so they've sent these Taoist amulets as tokens of their respect. If Master Bao thinks they're nothing special, he can keep them as toys or give them away, just as he pleases.
May All Your Wishes Come True
Eternal Peace.
This won't do,
How can priests afford such things? It's quite uncalled for. We can't possibly accept them.
These are just a small token of their esteem. I couldn't stop them,
If Your Ladyship won't accept them, they'll think you look down on me and don't consider me as your protege.
Since Grandad Zhang won't let us refuse, and these things are no use to me, madam,
why not let my pages carry them out with me now to distribute them to the poor?
That's a good idea,
That's a charitable thought, Master Bao; but even if these things are of little value, some of them are well made. They'd be wasted on beggars, who'd have no use for them. If you want to help the poor, why not give them money instead?
All right,
We'll keep them and distribute some alms this evening.
What's the story?
It's about the First Emperor of Han who killed a serpent, then founded the dynasty. The second is Every Son a High Minister.
So that's the second?
Well, if this is the wish of the gods, what must be must be. And what's the third?
The Dream of the Southern Tributary State. 
I'm sure I've seen something like this on one of the girls,
Cousin Xiangyun has one like that, only a little smaller,
So that's it!
All this time she's been staying with us, how come I've never noticed it?
Cousin Baochai's observant,
She never forgets anything either.
She's not so observant about other things,
But she's most observant about other people's trinkets.
This is rather fun,
I'll keep it for you till we get home, then put it on a cord for you to wear. 
I don't fancy it.
If you really don't, in that case I'll keep it for myself.
You shouldn't have come,
I'm just out for a little jaunt.
Aiya!
I wasn't prepared for this. We just looked on this as an outing, but they've sent offerings under the impression that we're making a serious sacrifice of it. It's all our old lady's fault. Now I shall have to prepare some tips.
This isn't a regular sacrifice,
We just came out for fun, but we've put them to all this trouble.
Why not go the whole hog?
Since we've already put everybody out, we may as well amuse ourselves again today.
I never want to set eyes on him again.
Why don't you go and see the shows?
Why should you stay at home?
I could forgive others for not understanding me, but now even she is making fun of me.
All right, all right,
We've known each other all these years in vain.
I know that too.
I'm not like those others who own things which make them a good match for you. 
Does this mean you really want to invoke Heaven and Earth to destroy me?
Yesterday I took an oath because of this, and today you provoke me again. If Heaven and Earth destroy me, what good will it do you?
If I wish you harm, may Heaven and Earth destroy me too,
Why take on like this? I know. When Zhang the Taoist spoke of your marriage yesterday, you were afraid he might prevent the match of your choice. And now you're working your temper off on me.
When false meets false, the truth will out.
I can forgive others not understanding me, but you ought to know you're the only one I care for. Yet instead of comforting me you only taunt me. It's obviously no use my thinking of you every minute of the day -- you've no place for me in your heart.
Nothing else matters to me so long as you're happy. Then I'd gladly die for you this very instant. Whether you know this or not, you can at least feel that in my heart you're close to me and not distant.
Just take good care of yourself. When you're happy, I'm happy too. Why should you be upset because of me? You should know that if you're upset, so am I. It means you won't let me be close to you and want me to keep at a distance.
the match of your choice
You rubbishy thing!
I'1l smash you to pieces and have done with it.
Why destroy that dumb object?
Better destroy me instead.
I can smash what's mine, can't I? What business is it of yours?
Because you have words with your cousin is no reason to smash this up,
Suppose you broke it, think how bad she'd feel.
No matter how angry you are, miss, do think of your health!
You were feeling a little better after the medicine; it's this tiff with Master Bao that's made you retch. If you fall ill, how upset Master Bao will be.
I should never have argued with her and got her into this state,
I can't even suffer instead of her.
Just because of the tassel on your jade, if not for any other reason, you shouldn't quarrel with Miss Lin.
All my work for nothing,
He doesn't care for it. He can get someone else to make him a better one.
Why do that?
It's my fault. I should have held my tongue.
Go ahead and cut it up,
I shan't wear it anyway, so it doesn't matter.
Why don't you look after them properly?
Can't you do something when they start quarrelling?
He has a weakness for feasts and theatricals. If he's staying away today, it must either be because yesterday's business still rankles or because he knows I'm not going. I should never have cut that tassel off his jade. I'm sure he won't wear it again now unless I make him another.
What sins have I committed in a past existence to be plagued with two such troublesome children?
Not a day goes by without something to worry about. How true the proverb is that 'Enemies and lovers are destined to meet.' Once I've closed my eyes and breathed my last, they can quarrel and storm as much as they like. What the eye doesn't see the heart doesn't grieve for. But I'm not at my last gasp just yet.
It's entirely your fault. You used to blame boys who quarrelled with their sisters, or husbands who disputed with their wives, for being too stupid to understand girl's hearts. Yet now you're being just as bad yourself. The day after tomorrow, the fifth, is the festival. If you two go on looking daggers at each other that will make the old lady even angrier and no one will have any peace. Do get over your temper and apologize! Let bygones be bygones. Wouldn't that be better for both sides?
The fact is you were too hasty the other day, miss,
We should know Baoyu if no one else does. After all, it's not the first time there's been a rumpus over that jade.
So you side with the others and blame me,
In what way was I hasty?
Why did you cut off the tassel for no reason? That put you more in the wrong than Master Bao. I know how devoted he is to you, miss. All this comes of your touchiness and the way you twist his words.
It's Baoyu's voice.
He must be coming to apologize.
Don't let him in. 
That wouldn't be right, miss. It's a scorching day. We don't want him to get sunstroke.
I thought you'd never cross this threshold of ours again,
But here you are. 
You take things far too seriously.
Why shouldn't I come? Even if I were dead, my ghost would haunt you a hundred times a day. Tell me, is my cousin better?
In her health, yes. Not in her feelings.
I know what's the trouble with her.
Are you feeling a little better?
I know you're not really angry with me,
But if I stayed away others might think we'd quarrelled again and come to act as peacemakers, as if the two of us were strangers. So beat me or scold me as much as you like but for pity's sake don't ignore me, dear cousin, sweet cousin!
You needn't flatter me,
I shall never dare be friends with you again. Behave as if I'd gone.
Where would you go?
Home.
I'd go with you. 
What if I should die?
I'd become a monk.
What a thing to say!
Why talk such nonsense? Think of all the sisters and girl cousins you have. Do you have so many lives that you can become a monk every time one of them dies? Wait and see what the others say when I tell them this.
You....
You're breaking my heart with your weeping,
Come, let's go and see the old lady.
Take your hands off me!
You're not a child any more, yet you still carry on in this shameless way. Can't you behave yourself?
Thank goodness!
The old lady's fulminating against Heaven and Earth,
She insisted I come to see if you'd made it up. I told her, 'No need, they'll be friends again in less than three days.' But she scolded me for being too lazy to stir, so I had to come. Well, what did I say? I can't see what you two have to quarrel about. Friends one day, squabbing the next, you're worse than children. Now you're holding hands and crying, but yesterday you were like fighting cocks. Come along with me, quick, to your grandmother to set the old lady's mind at rest.
What do you want them for?
I'll look after you.
I said don't worry, they'll make it up themselves,
Our Old Ancestress didn't believe me, and insisted I go along as peacemaker. I found they'd already asked each other's forgiveness, and were clinging together like an eagle sinking its talons into a hawk. They didn't need any help.
I would have to be out of sorts on your brother's birthday; that's why I haven't sent any present over or even gone to offer congratulations. If he doesn't know I'm unwell, he may think I couldn't be bothered and be offended. Do explain to him, will you, cousin?
You're over-punctilious,
We wouldn't dare put you to any trouble even if you wished to go, much less so when you're unwell. As cousins you're always seeing so much of each other, you've no call to behave like strangers.
So long as you understand and will overlook it.
But why aren't you watching the operas, cousin?
I feel the heat. After watching two pieces I couldn't stand it any longer. But as the guests hadn't left, I had to pretend to be feeling unwell in order to slip away.
No wonder they compare you to Lady Yang, you're both 'plump and sensitive to the heat. '
If I'm so like Lady Yang,
it's too bad I've no brother or cousin able to be another Yang Guozhong. 
You must have hidden it, miss,
Do let me have it back.
Behave yourself!
Have I ever played such tricks with you, that you should suspect me? You should ask the other young ladies who are always joking with you.
What were the two operas you saw, cousin?
One was that piece,
in which Li Kui abuses Song Jiang and then apologizes.
Why, cousin,
surely you're sufficiently well versed in ancient and modern literature to know the title of that opera. Why do you have to describe it? It's called Abject Apologies.
Abject Apologies, is it?
You two are the ones well versed in ancient and modern literature, so of course you know all about 'abject apologies' -- that's something quite beyond me.
Who's been eating ginger in such hot weather?
No one's been eating ginger.
In that case, why are some people so red in the face?
Now you've come up against someone with a sharper tongue than mine. Not everyone's as simple and tongue-tied as I am, so easy to tease.
You sleepy-head!
I'll ask your mistress for you tomorrow,
Then we can be together.
Or rather I'll ask her as soon as she wakes.
What's the hurry? 'A gold pin may fall into the well, but if it's yours it remains yours.' Can't you understand that proverb? I'll tell you some-thing amusing to do. Go to the small east courtyard and see what your brother Huan and Caiyun are up to.
I don't care what they're up to. It's you I'm interested in.
Shameless slut!
It's low creatures like you who lead the young masters astray.
Jinchuan!
Go and tell your mother to come at once and take your sister away.
I shan't let it happen again, madam,
Can this be another absurd maid come to bury flowers like Daiyu?
If so, she's 'Dong Shi imitating Xi Shi,'3 which isn't original but rather tiresome.
It's no use your trying to copy Miss Lin!
It's a good thing I held my tongue,
I've already annoyed Daiyu and hurt Baochai's feelings by my tactlessness. It would be still more senseless to offend any of these girls.
rose.
She must be trying to write a poem,
and these flowers have suggested the idea for a couple of lines. For fear of forgetting it, she's tracing the character while she thinks it out. Yes, that may be it. Let me see what else she writes.
She must have some secret anxiety preying on her mind to carry on like this,
Yet she looks too delicate to stand much anxiety. I wish I could share her troubles.
Do stop writing! Look, you're getting drenched.
Thanks, sister,
You don't seem to have much shelter out there yourself either.
Bother it!
Who's that at the gate?
Who'll go and see?
It's I!
Sounds like Miss Baochai,
Nonsense!
Miss Baochai wouldn't come at this hour.
I'll peep through a crack,
to see if it's somebody we should let in. If it's not, we'll let whoever it is get a soaking.
How were we to know you were back?
Where have you been, running about in such a downpour?
You low creatures!
I treat you so well that you've lost all sense of respect. Now you dare make fun of me!
Oh, is it you?
Where did I kick you?
It's all right,
Go in and change your clothes.
This is the first time in my life I've lashed out in a temper -- and it had to be at you.
I'm your number one maid,
So I should have first share of everything big or small, good or bad. I just hope you won't make a habit of kicking people.
I didn't mean to do it.
I'm not saying you did. Usually it's the younger ones who go to the gate. They're all so spoilt that nobody can stand them, and they're not afraid of anyone either. It would have served them right if you'd kicked one of them to frighten them. Today I’m to blame for not letting them open the gate.
What are you doing?
You were groaning in your sleep. I must have hurt you badly. Let me have a look.
I feel dizzy and there's a bitter-sweet taste in my throat. Throw the light on the floor, will you?
How dreadful!
Row are you feeling?
All right.
If you make such a fuss that people come flocking in, they'll blame me for getting above myself,
At present not a soul knows, but to noise it abroad would be damaging for us both. Just send a boy tomorrow to ask Doctor Wang for some medicine, and that will set me right. Far better keep the whole business quiet.
Coming together can only be followed by parting. The more pleasure people find in parties, the more lonely and unhappy they must feel when the parties break up. So better not forgather in the first place. The same is true of flowers: they delight people when in bloom, but it's so heartrending to see them fade that it would be better if they never blossomed.
How stupid you are! What's to become of you when in future you have a home of your own? Surely you can't go on being so careless then.
How bad-tempered you've grown lately,
Always throwing your weight about. The other day you even beat Xiren, and now you're picking on me. You can kick or beat us as much as you like, of course, but what's so dreadful about dropping a fan? Plenty of glass vases and agate bowls have been smashed before without your flaring up. It seems pointless to make such a fuss over a fan. If you're fed up with us, you can send us packing and get some better attendants. But why not part company in a peaceful, friendly way?
Don't worry,
We shall part sooner or later.
Why take on again for no reason?
Didn't I tell you, the moment my back's turned there's trouble.
If you're so clever,
you should have come earlier to prevent this tantrum. You're the one who's looked after him since ancient times -- I never did. It's because you're so good at it that you got kicked right under your heart yesterday. Heaven knows what punishment is waiting tomorrow for me, unfit as I am to wait on him.
Run along and amuse yourself outside, good sister,
We’re the ones to blame.
we,
I don't know what you mean by 'we,'
Don't make me blush for you. What you're up to on the sly is no secret to me. The fact of the matter is, you've not even earned the grade of a concubine yet, so you're no better than I am. How can you talk of 'we'?
If the rest of you are so jealous,
I'll raise her status just to spite you.
Why argue with a silly girl? You're usually broad-minded enough to overlook plenty of worse things than this. What's got into you today?
I'm too silly to be up to talking to you,
Are you quarrelling with me, miss, or with Master Bao? If I annoy you just tell me, instead of squabbling with him. If Master Bao annoys you, don't make such a row that everybody hears. I came in to try to smooth things over and save everybody's face, but then you set on me. Which of us are you mad at, him or me? What's the idea, lashing out in all directions? Well, I'll say no more. It's up to you now. 
There was no need to fly into such a temper,
I know what's on your mind. I'll tell the mistress you've reached the age to be sent home. How about that?
Why should I go home?
How can you trump up an excuse to get rid of me just because you’ve taken a dislike to me?
I've never been through such a scene before. You're obviously set on going. So I'd better ask my mother to send you away.
Where are you off to?
What nonsense!
How can you have the heart to shame her so? Even if she really wanted to leave, you should wait until she's cooled down and then mention it to the mistress casually. If you rush over now as if this were something urgent, Her Ladyship's bound to start imagining things.
Not her. I'll just tell her that she insists on leaving.
When did I insist on leaving?
You fly into a rage, then put words into my mouth. All right, go and report it. But I'll dash out my brains sooner than leave this house.
That's strange!
If you won't go, what's all this fuss about? I can't stand these rows. Far simpler if you left.
What am I to do?
I've worn my heart out, yet nobody cares.
What's all this crying during the festival?
Are you fighting for sticky rice dumplings?
Since you won't tell me I'll find out from her.
What's happened, dear sister-in-law? I suppose you two have been squabbling again. Tell me what's wrong and I'll act as peacemaker.
You're joking, miss.
Don't talk such nonsense to us servant-girls.
You may call yourself a servant-girl, but I regard you as my sister-in-law.
Why give her another name for people to jeer at?
There's enough gossip already without your joining in.
You don't know how I feel, miss,
I'll never have any peace until I can die and be done with it!
I can't say what others would do if you died.
I'd die first of crying.
I'd become a monk if you died,
Do be quiet,
That's no way to talk.
That's twice, so far, you've become a monk. I must keep track of how many times you do it.
Has the pain stopped?
Why are you back to plague me again?
You're growing more and more spoilt,
It's so hot, keep your hands to yourself,
Then why were you sleeping here?
It was all right before you came, but not now that you're here. Get up and let me have my bath. I'll call Xiren and Sheyue -- they've already had theirs.
After all the wine I've drunk I need a bath too. If you've not had yours, fill the tub and we'll bath together.
Not I.I wouldn't dare. I remember what happened that time Bihen helped you bath. Two or three hours it took and we couldn't go in heaven knows what you were up to. When you'd finished and we had a look, the floor right up to the legs of the bed was all over water -- even the bed mat was sopping. Goodness knows what sort of bath you had! It kept us laughing for days. I haven't the time to mop up after you, and see no need for you to bath with me. Besides, it's so cool now I don't think you ought to have a bath; I'll just get you a basin of water to wash your face and comb your hair. Yuanyang brought in a lot of fruit not long ago which is being chilled in that crystal bowl. I'll tell them to bring it for you.
In that case, you mustn't bath either. Just wash your hands and bring the fruit.
If I'm so careless that I even break fans, how can I fetch fruit? If I broke a plate too, I'd never hear the end of it.
You can if you want. Such things are meant to be used. You may like one thing, I another. People's tastes differ. For instance, fans are meant for fanning; but if I choose to break one for fun, what's wrong with that? But we shouldn't break things to work off a fit of temper. It's the same with cups or plates which are for serving things in. If you smash them because you like the sound, all right. Just don't work off your temper on them. That's what's called caring for things.
If that's so, get me a fan to tear up. I love ripping things apart.
Well done! Try and make a bigger noise.
What a wicked waste!
Stop it.
What's the idea?
Spoiling my fan -- is that your idea of fun?
Just pick another from the fan case,
What's so wonderful about a fan?
You'd better bring the case out here then and let her tear the whole lot up.
You bring it.
I won't do anything of the sort. She's not broken her wrist, let her fetch it.
I'm tired.
I'll tear up some more tomorrow.
You know the ancient saying,
'A thousand pieces of gold can hardly purchase a smile.' And what are a few fans worth?
It's hot,
Do take off your outer garments.
What a lot you're wearing, child.
My second aunt made me,
I didn't want to put on so much.
If you only knew, aunt, she loves dressing up in other people's clothes,
'Well, you look even better dressed up as a boy,' she said.
You don't know the half of it,
The year before last she was fetched in the first month, and she'd only been here a couple of days when it started to snow. I believe my grandmother and aunt had just come back from bowing to the ancestral portraits, and the old lady's new red woollen cape was lying there. Cousin Shi put it on without anyone noticing, tying it at the waist with a handkerchief because it was too big and long for her. Then she went with the maids to the back yard to make a snow-man and fell flat on her face by the drain, covering herself with mud.
Nanny Zhou,
does your young lady still get up to pranks like that?
I don't mind her pranks,
But she chatters too much for me. Even in her sleep she rattles away, laughing and chattering. All the nonsense she talks - I don't know where she gets it from!
I expect she's better now,
Are you staying here or going back today?
Your Ladyship hasn't seen all the clothes we've brought,
Oh yes, we mean to stay for a couple of days.
Isn't Cousin Bao at home?
Cousin Bao's the only one she thinks of.
It's because they're both fond of pranks. That shows she hasn't changed her mischievous ways. 
So Cousin Yun's here!
Why didn't you come last time we sent to invite you?
The old lady said you must stop that,
But there you go using pet names again.
He has something nice for you.
Something nice for me?
Don't believe her.
And how is Sister Xiren?
Very well, thank you.
I've brought her a little present.
What is it?
Why didn't you bring her a couple of red cornelian rings like those you sent over the other day?
What do you think these are?
Look at the girl!
Why didn't you give the servant these to bring too, when you sent those rings to us? Wouldn't that have been simpler? Now you turn up with more yourself. I thought it was something different, but it's only the same again. How silly you are!
Silly yourself!
Let me explain and the rest of you shall judge which of us is silly. I sent those rings to you by the page you'd dispatched. The messenger needn't say a word, once you saw the rings you'd know that they were for the young ladies. Whereas if I'd sent some for the maids as well, I'd have had to tell him which was for which. If he'd been intelligent, all right; but if he'd been stupid he couldn't have remembered the names and would have mixed everything up, including your rings. A matron who knew the maids would have managed all right, but that day it happened to be a page who couldn't possibly be told the maids' names. So wasn't it simpler for me to bring them here myself?
One for Xiren, one for Yuanyang, one for Jinchuan, one for Pinger,
Could a page have remembered the four of them so clearly?
Still such a talker!
She's never at a loss.
Even if she couldn't talk, her golden unicorn could.
Have some tea and rest,
Then you can go and see your sisters-in-law and stroll with your cousins in the Garden where it's cool.
You needn't all come with me,
Go and see your friends and relatives. It'll be enough if I have Cuilu.
Why isn't the lotus in bloom yet?
It isn't time yet.
Their lotus is like that in our pool -- it has double flowers.
Theirs isn't as good as ours. 
Look, they have a pomegranate-tree over there, miss, with four or five branches trained together, one above the other. That can't have been easy to grow. 
Plants are like human beings,
When they're filled with vital force they grow well.
I don't believe it.
If human beings and plants are alike, why haven't I seen a man with one head growing on top of another?
Can't you ever keep quiet?
How can I explain this to you? All things between heaven and earth are born from the dual principles yin and yang. So whether good or bad, weird or wonderful, everything that comes into being depends on the favourable or unfavourable influence of these two forces. This is true of even the rarest, strangest things.
Do you mean to say everything's been a yin or a yang ever since Creation and the beginning of time?
What nonsense you do talk, you stupid thing.
How could there be so many yins and yangs? Yin and yang are one. Where one ends, the other begins. It's not that after a yang is exhausted a yin comes into being, or the other way round.
I find this terribly muddling,
What are yin and yang? Have they no shape or form, miss? Do just tell me what they look like..
They're simply natural forces, but whatever they enter assumes a form. Heaven is yang and the earth yin, for instance. Water is yin, fire yang; the sun is yang; the moon yin.
I see.
Now I understand. No wonder people call the sun the 'great yang' and fortune-tellers call the moon the 'great yin star.' This explains it.
Buddha be praised. So you've caught on at last.
It's all very well for these big things to have yin and yang, but what about mosquitoes, fleas and midges? What about flowers and grass, or bricks and tiles? Do they have yin and yang too?
Of course they do. That leaf, for instance, has its yin and yang. The side facing the light is yang, the side underneath yin.
So that's how it is.
I see. But which is yang and which yin in these fans we're holding?
The front is yang and the back yin.
Does this have yin and yang too, miss?
Of couse it has. The male of all beasts and birds is yang and the female yin.
Is it male or female then?
Not even I know that.
Never mind. If all other things have yin and yang, why don't human beings?
Get away, you low creature!
You're going too far.
What do you know?
You're yang, miss, and I'm yin
I get the point,
Why should you find it so funny?
Quite right, quite right.
People say that masters are yang and slaves are yin. Do you think I don't know an important rule like that?
You know all about it,
Look, what's that thing glittering like gold?
Has someone dropped a trinket here?
Now we'll see which is yang and which yin,
I can't let you see this treasure, miss,
I wonder where it comes from. How very odd! I've never seen anyone here with such a thing.
Let me have a look.
What are you doing here in the sun?
Why don't you go and see Xiren?
We're on our way there,
Let's go together.
You should have come earlier,
I've got something nice which I've been keeping for you.
Aiya!
Did you put that thing away?
What thing?
That unicorn I got the other day.
You've been carrying it on you all the time, why ask me?
I've lost it.
Where can I find it?
When did you get hold of a unicorn?
Only the other day, and I didn't come by it easily either. I can't think when I lost it. How stupid of me.
It's lucky it's just a toy, yet see what a state you're in!
Look, is this it?
Thank you!
Where did you find it?
It's lucky it was only this.
Will you let it go at that if you lose your official seal in future?
Losing an official seal is nothing.
But I deserve death for losing this.
Miss Shi, I heard the other day that you're engaged now,
So coy!
Remember what you told me one evening some ten years ago when we were staying in the alcove on the west side? You weren't coy then; why be so bashful now?
The things you say!
Well I never!
In those days I was 'sister' and 'dear sister' to you when you wanted me to comb your hair, wash your face and dance attendance on you. Now you've grown up, you've put on the airs of a young lady. If you stand on your dignity, how dare I take liberties?
Amida Buddha! That's not fair,
May I drop dead if I ever give myself airs. Look how hot it is today, yet as soon as I arrive I hurry straight over to see you. If you don't believe me, ask Cuilu. At home I'm always saying how much I miss you.
Can't you take a joke?
You still flare up so easily.
You won't admit how provoking you are, yet scold me for flaring up.
Actually, I was given one of those you sent your cousins,
And now you've brought me one yourself -- a sure sign that you hadn't forgotten me. It's not the rings I value, it's the thought that counts.
Who gave you one?
Miss Baochai.
I thought it was Miss Lin. So it was Baochai.
At home every day I often think that of all my cousins Baochai is the best. What a pity we aren't real sisters! If we were, it wouldn't be so bad being an orphan.
All right, all right,
No more of this.
What's wrong?
I know what's worrying you. You're afraid your Cousin Lin may hear and be cross with me for singing Baochai's praises -- right?
Miss Yun!
The older you grow the more outspoken you get.
I always say you girls are hard to talk with. And this proves it.
Don't make me sick, dear cousin, speaking like that. You can keep your end up with us, but what happens when you cross swords with Daiyu?
That's enough,
I've a favour to ask you.
What is it?
I've started on a pair of slippers but haven't been able to finish them because I've been poorly for the last couple of days. Have you time to do them for me?
Well, well,
This house is full of clever girls, to say nothing of sewing-women and tailors. Why pick on me? How can anyone who's asked possibly refuse?
Are you so dense?
Don't you know that none of the needlework for our apartments is done by sewing-women?
In that case I'll do it -- but on one condition. I'll make slippers for you, not for anybody else.
There you go again,
Who am I to ask you to make slippers for me? The fact is they're not mine, but don't ask whose they are. At any rate I'd take it kindly of you.
Of course, I've done plenty of sewing for you in the past. But you'll understand why I can't do it this time.
Indeed, I don 't understand.
I heard the fan-sheath I made the other day was taken to compare with someone else's, and in a tantrum that someone cut it to pieces. I know all about it, so don't try to fool me. Am I your slave to be given tasks like this?
I didn't know that sheath was your work.
He honestly didn't know,
Stranger and stranger!
Why should Miss Lin be angry? If she can snip, ask her to make another.
Out of the question,
Even as it is, the old lady's afraid of her overtiring herself and the doctor has prescribed her a good rest. Who'd dream of troubling her with needlework? Last year it took her a whole year to finish one scented pouch. And this year I've not yet seen needle or thread in her hands.
Mr. Jia of Prosperity Street has called. The master wants the young gentleman to go and see him.
Surely it's enough if my father keeps him company. Why must he see me each time?
It must be because uncle thinks you're a good host. Otherwise he wouldn't send for you.
It's not my father's idea. It's that fellow who asks for me each single time.
'When the host is cultured, guests frequent his house,
He likes seeing you, surely, because he can learn something from you. 
Don't call me cultured,
I'm the most vulgar of the vulgar herd, and I've no desire at all to mix with such people.
You haven't changed one bit,
But now you're growing up. Even if you don't want to study and sit for the examinations, you should at least associate with officials and learn something about the world and administration. That'1l help you to manage your own affairs in future and make some friends. What other young gentleman spends all his time, the way you do, playing about with us girls?
Please go and call on some of your other cousins, young lady,
People with worldly wisdom like yours will be polluted here.
Don't say such things to him, miss,
Last time Miss Baochai gave him the same advice he just snorted and walked away without any regard for her feelings. In the middle of what she was saying he marched off. She flushed crimson and hardly knew whether to go on or not. Thank goodness it was Miss Baochai and not Miss Lin -- she 'd have made a fearful scene, weeping and sobbing. But there you are, it's true that nobody can help admiring Miss Baochai. She just blushed and went away. I felt very bad, sure she must be offended; but later she behaved as if nothing had happened. She's really good natured and tolerant. He's the one, believe it or not, who has since kept his distance. If you sulked and ignored Miss Lin like that,
how many apologies would you have to make her?
Has Miss Lin ever talked such disgusting nonsense?
So nonsense is the name for it.
Miss Lin never talks such disgusting nonsense. If she did, I'd have stopped having anything to do with her.
Where are you going, cousin?
What, crying again? Who's offended you this time?
I'm all right.
I wasn't crying.
Don't fib -- your eyes are still wet.
Are you crazy? Can't you keep your hands to yourself?
I did it without thinking.
I was dead to all around me. 
No one will care when you 're dead, but what about the gold locket and unicorn you'll have to leave behind?
How can you talk like that! Are you trying to put me under a curse, or set on annoying me?
Don't get so excited,
Why work yourself up over a slip of the tongue? The veins on your forehead are all swollen with anger, and what a sweat you're in!
You mustn't worry. 
Worry?
I don't understand. What do you mean?
Don't you really understand?
Could it be that since I've known you all my feelings for you have been wrong? If I can't even enter into your feelings, then you're quite right to be angry with me all the time.
Dear cousin, don't tease.
If you really don't understand, all my devotion's been wasted and even your feeling for me has been thrown away. You ruin your health by worrying so much. If you'd take things less to heart, your illness wouldn't be getting worse every day.
Dear cousin, wait. Just let me say one word.
What more is there to say? I understand.
You forgot your fan,
Luckily I noticed it. And here it is.
Dear cousin, I never ventured before to bare my heart to you,
Now that I've summoned up courage to speak, I'll die content. I was making myself ill on account of you, but I dared not tell anyone and hid my feelings. I shan't recover till you're better too, I can't forget you even in my dreams.
Merciful Buddha, save me!
What sort of talk is this? Has some evil spirit taken possession of you? Go quickly!
'Why are you standing here dreaming?
This sun is scorching.
Two sparrows were fighting over there,
It was so amusing that I stayed to watch.
The master sent for him.
Aiya! On such a sweltering day. What for? Could it be that something's made him angry and he's sent for Cousin Bao to lecture him?
It's nothing like that,
I think a guest wants to see him.
A guest with no sense.
Why gad about in such hot weather instead of staying indoors and keeping cool?
Why indeed?
And what was Xiangyun doing in your compound?
She just dropped in for a chat. You know that pair of shoes I started the other day? I've asked her to finish them for me. 
How could someone with your good sense suddenly be so inconsiderate?
Piecing together what I've seen and heard recently, I guess Yun's a nobody at home. To save expense, her people no longer employ sewing-women but make practically everything they need themselves. That's why, during her last few visits, she's confided to me when nobody was about that she gets quite tired out at home. And when I asked about their daily life, her eyes filled with tears and she made some evasive answer. So I gather she's having a hard time of it because she lost her parents so early on. I can't help feeling sorry for her.
That's it, that's it.
After what you've said, miss, I realize she couldn't very well refuse but she probably has to work late into the night at home. How stupid of me! If I'd known, I wouldn't have asked her.
Last time she did tell me she has to work till midnight at home, and if she does the least bit of work for other people the ladies of the house don't like it.
But we have such a stubborn, wayward young master he won't let the sewing-women make any of his things, big or small, and I haven't the time for it all.
Never mind him. Just get the other girls to do it, and tell him you did it yourself.
There's no fooling him. He'd know at once. No, I shall just have to slave away myself.
Wait a bit.
Suppose I help you?
Will you really? What luck for me.
I'll bring the shoes over this evening.
Just imagine!
That girl Jinchuan, for no reason at all, has drowned herself in the well.
Which Jinchuan?
How many Jinchuans are there? The girl who worked for the mistress, of course. The other day, we don't know why, she was dismissed. She wept and sobbed at home but no one took any notice, till they found she'd disappeared. Just now one of the water-carriers was drawing water from that well in the southeast corner when he discovered a corpse. He fetched people to get it out, and it was Jinchuan. Her family's trying frantically to bring her round, but of course it's too late.
This is rather odd!
From the Garden,
Did you see your Cousin Bao?
Did you hear this extraordinary business about Jinchuan suddenly drowning herself in the well?
Why should she do a thing like that for no reason? It's very strange.
The other day she broke something of mine, and in a fit of anger I struck her and sent her away. I was meaning to punish her for a couple of days and then to have her fetched back. I'd no idea she'd fly into such a passion she'd jump into the well. This is all my fault.
You feel that way, auntie, because you're so kind-hearted. But I can't believe she drowned herself in a tantrum. She was playing by the well, more likely, and fell in. After being rather confined in your rooms she'd want to play around once she left, stands to reason. How could she work herself into such a passion? If she did, that was very foolish. She doesn't deserve any pity.
But even if you're right,
I still feel bad about it.
Don't take it so much to heart, auntie. If you feel bad about it, just give them a few extra taels of silver for her burial and you'll be doing all a kind mistress could.
Just now I gave her mother fifty taels. I wanted to give them two sets of your cousins' new clothes to lay her out in as well; but according to Xifeng the only ones ready are two new sets for your Cousin Lin's birthday. She's such a sensitive child, so delicate too, that wouldn't she think it unlucky to have the clothes made for her birthday made over to a dead girl? So I've told the tailors to make two new sets as fast as they can. If it had been any other maid, I'd have felt a few taels of silver would be enough; but Jinchuan was with me for some time and was just like a daughter to me.
There's no need to hurry the tailors, 
The other day I had two sets made. I can easily fetch them for her. That would save lots of trouble. When she was alive she wore my old clothes and they were a perfect fit.
But aren't you afraid it may bring bad luck?
Don't worry, auntie. I'm not superstitious.
Why are you moping like this?
It took you a long time to come out when Yucun asked for you; and when you did come, you had nothing spirited or cheerful to say but looked quite down in the mouth, the picture of gloom. And now you're sighing again. What have you to moan about? Is anything wrong? Why are you carrying on in this way?
Excuse the presumption of this intrusion,
What instructions have you for me, sir, from the prince?
I beg to be enlightened so that I may do my best to carry them out.
There is no need for you, my lord, to do more than say one word,
There is in our palace an actor by the name of Qiguan, who plays female roles. He had never previously given any trouble, but several days ago he disappeared. After searching the city for him without success, we instituted careful inquiries. We are told by eight out of every ten persons questioned that he has recently been on the closest terms with your esteemed son who was born with jade in his mouth. Of course, we could not seize him from your honourable mansion as if it were an ordinary household. So we reported the matter to His Highness, who says he would rather lose a hundred other actors than Qiguan, for this clever well-behaved lad is such a favourite with our master's father that he cannot do without him. I beg you, therefore, to ask your noble son to send Qiguan back, in compliance with the prince's earnest request and to save me from wearing myself out in a fruitless search.
You scoundrel!
Not content with shirking your studies at home, you commit such wicked crimes outside! Qiguan is in the service of Prince Zhongshun; how dare a wretch like you lure him away and bring calamity on me?
I know nothing about it,
It is useless to keep it a secret, sir. Tell us whether he is hiding here or where else he has gone. A prompt avowal will save us trouble and win you our gratitude.
You may have been misinformed, I'm afraid,
Why deny it when we have proof? What good can it do you to force me to speak out before your noble father? If you never heard of this actor, how is it that you wear his red sash round your waist?
How did they find out?
If they've even found out such secrets, it's not much use trying to keep the rest from them. Better send him off before he does any more blabbing.
If you know so much, sir, how is it you are ignorant of something as important as his purchase of property? I am told that twenty li to the east of the city, in a place called Sandalwood Castle, he has bought a house and a few mu of land. I should think he might possibly be there.
He must be there if you say so. I shall go and investigate. If we find him, well and good. If not, we shall come back for further enlightenment.
Stay where you are. I shall deal with you presently.
What are you rushing about for?
Where are all the people supposed to look after you? Have they gone off to amuse themselves while you run wild?
I wasn't running to begin with,
Not until I passed the well where that maid drowned herself. Her head's swollen up like this, and her body's all bloated from soaking in the water. It was such a horrible sight that I ran away as fast as ever I could.
What maid here had any reason to throw herself into a well?
Such a thing has never happened before in this house. Since the time of our ancestors we have always treated our subordinates well. Of late, though, I've neglected household affairs and those in charge must have abused their power, resulting in this calamitous suicide. If word of this gets out, it will disgrace our ancestors' good name.
Don't be angry, sir!
No one knows about this except those in my lady's apartment. I heard my mother say….
My mother told me,
that the other day Brother Baoyu grabbed hold of Jinchuan in my lady's room and tried to rape her. When she wouldn't let him, he beat her. That's why she drowned herself in a fit of passion.
Fetch Baoyu! Quick!
If anybody tries to stop me this time, I'll make over to him my official insignia and property and let him serve Baoyu! How can I escape blame? I'll shave off these few remaining hairs and retire to a monastery, there to atone for disgracing my ancestors by begetting such a monster.
Bring Baoyu in!
Fetch the heavy rod! Tie him up! Close all the doors. Anyone who sends word to the inner apartments will be killed on the spot.
Go in quick!
Tell them the master's going to beat me. Do hurry! This is urgent!
urgent
drowning.
She chose drowning herself,
What does it matter to you?
Go and get my page to come,
It's over now. Over and done with. And the mistress has given them clothes and silver too. Don't fret.
Gag him!
Beat him to death!
Ask him if such conduct as his can be pardoned,
You're the ones who've been spoiling him. When it comes to this do you still intercede for him? Will you still persist when he commits regicide or parricide?
This is the end!
You're determined to be the death of me today.
I know Baoyu deserves a beating,
But you mustn't wear yourself out, sir. It's a sweltering day and the old lady isn't well. Killing Baoyu is a small matter, but should anything happen to the old lady that would be serious.
Spare me this talk.
I've already proved an unfilial son by begetting this degenerate. When I discipline him all of you protect him. I'd better strangle him now to avoid further trouble.
You're right to chastise your son, sir, but have pity on your wife!
I'm getting on for fifty and this wretch is my only son. If you insist on making an example of him, how dare I dissuade you? But if you kill him today, it means you want me to die too. If strangle him you must, take this rope and strangle me first, then strangle him. Mother and son, we won't dare hold it against you, and at least I shall have some support in the nether world.
Ah, my poor child!
poor child
If you were still living,
I shouldn't care if a hundred others died.
The old lady is coming!
Why should you vex yourself, mother, and come over on such a hot day? If you have any instructions, just send for your son.
Were you addressing me?
Yes, I have some instructions. The pity is I've borne no filial son to whom I can speak.
If your son disciplines his son, it is for the honour of our ancestors,
How can I bear your reproaches?
So you can't bear one word from me, eh? Then how does Baoyu bear your lethal rod? You talk of disciplining your son for the honour of your ancestors, but how did your father discipline you in the past?
Don't grieve, mother,
I was wrong to lose my temper. I shall never beat him again.
You needn't try to work off your rage on me. It's not for me to stop you beating your son. I suppose you're tired of us all, and we'd better leave now to save trouble all round.
Your mistress and Baoyu are going back to Nanjing with me this instant.
Don't cry,
Baoyu's still a child now and you love him; but when he grows up and becomes a high official he may not have any consideration for his mother either. Better not be too fond of him now if you want to avoid heartache later.
What place is there for me on earth, mother,
if you reproach me like this?
You're making it clear that there's no place for me, and yet you start complaining. We are simply going away to save you trouble and leave you free to beat anyone you please.
Stupid creatures!
Have you no eyes? He's in no state to walk. Go and fetch that wicker couch.
My child, my darling!
Why didn't you die as a baby in Zhu's place? Then your father wouldn't be so angry, and all my trouble wouldn't have been in vain. If anything happens to you now I shall be left all alone, with no one to depend on in my old age!
worthless son
Why don't you leave us? What are you hanging around for? Won't you be satisfied until you've made sure that he dies?
There was no sign of trouble earlier on. How did this start?
And why didn't you come to report it earlier?
It just happened that I wasn't there,
I only heard about it half-way through the beating. At once I asked people how the trouble had started. It was over the business of Qiguan and Sister Jinchuan.
How did the master come to hear about it?
In the case of Qiguan, it looks as if Master Xue Pan was behind it. Having no other way to vent his jealous spite, he got somebody from outside to come and tell His Lordship - then the fat was in the fire. As for Jinchuan, it was young Master Huan who blabbed. Or so His Lordship's men told me.
Oh, nothing special. What's the use of asking?
The lower part of my body hurts terribly. Do see how serious the damage is.
Heavens! How could he be so cruel?
But, you know, this would never have happened if you'd paid the least attention to my advice. Well, it's lucky no bones are broken. What if you'd been maimed for life?
Dissolve this drug in wine this evening and apply it as a salve,
That will draw the heat and poison from the bruise and help to cure him.
Is he any better?
If you'd listened to our advice, this wouldn't have happened,
Now you've not only upset the old lady and your mother; when the rest of us see you like this, our hearts ache too.... 
I just get given a few strokes,
and they show such sweet distress and sympathy. How good and kind they are! How admirable! If I were to meet with some accident and die, they'd surely be quite overcome with grief. But it would be worth dying, even with nothing to show for my life, provided I'd won their hearts. Indeed, it would be silly if I wasn't a happy and contented ghost.
What's the reason for this sudden row and beating?
Cousin Xue would never do such a thing!
Stop making such wild guesses. 
How tactful and cautious you are in spite of your pain after such a dreadful beating,
If you can be so considerate of our feelings, why not pay equal attention to important matters outside? For then your father would be pleased, and you wouldn't get into hot water like this. You cut Xiren short for fear of hurting me, but do you suppose I don't know my brother's wild, lawless ways? If such a rumpus was raised that time because of Qin Zhong, much worse things are possible now.
Why pin the blame on this person or that?
I think the master was angry because Cousin Bao doesn't behave well and keeps bad company. Even if my brother did let fall some careless remark about Cousin Bao, he can't have meant to make trouble. For after all, in the first place, it was the truth; in the second, he's the type who can't be bothered to gossip. You're used to Cousin Bao who's so considerate. You haven't met my brother, who fears neither Heaven nor Earth and blurts out whatever happens to be in his mind.
I'll come back tomorrow to see how you are,
Have a good rest. I've given Xiren something to make you a salve tonight, and that should help.
Thank you, miss, for taking so much trouble,
When Master Bao's better he'll come himself to thank you.
There's nothing to thank me for. Just persuade him to rest properly and not let his imagination run away with him. We don't want the old lady and the mistress and everyone disturbed. For if word of it reached the master's ears, even if he did nothing for the time being, there'd be trouble later on.
You shouldn't have come,
Though the sun's set, the ground is still hot. Walking here and back may make you unwell again. I'm not in any pain after my beating, just putting on an act to fool them so that word of it will get out to my father. I'm shamming actually. Don't you worry about me. 
Never do such things again.
Don't you worry,
Please don't talk this way. I would die happily for people like them, and I'm still alive.
I'll go out the back way and drop in again later,
That's a strange thing to do. Why should you be afraid of her?
Look at my eyes,
She'd make fun of me if she saw. 
Are you better?
If you fancy anything to eat, send someone to my place for it.
You're a second too late, aunties,
Master Bao has just gone to sleep.
The mistress has sent for one of us. You see to things here. I'll be back presently.
Why didn't you send one of the others?
Who'll look after him in your absence?
Master Bao's sound asleep now, and the other girls know how to look after him,
Please don't worry, madam. I thought perhaps you had some instructions which one of the others might not understand, and that might hold things up.
I've no special instructions. I just wanted to know how he is now.
Miss Baochai brought us a salve, and after I applied it he seemed better. At first the pain kept him awake, but now he's sleeping soundly. It shows he's on the mend.
Did he eat anything?
Only two mouthfuls of the soup the old lady sent. He complained he was parched and asked for some sour plum juice. But I thought to myself: Sour things are astringent, and when he was beaten and couldn't cry out some choleric humours must have rushed to his viscera; plum juice might affect them, bringing on a serious illness, and that would never do. Finally I talked him out of it and gave him some candied rose petals instead. He only ate half a bowl, though, then found it cloying and insipid.
Why didn't you send and let me know before?
The other day I was sent a couple of bottles of scented flower juice and meant to give them to him, but thought he might waste them. If he finds rose petals cloying, take him these. One tea-spoon in a bowl of water is delicious.
Fetch those bottles of juice which were brought the other day.
Two bottles will be plenty,
More would be wasted. We can always come and ask for more when it's finished.
Pure Osmanthus Juice,
Pure Rose Juice.
What luxury objects!
Such small bottles can't hold much.
They're for the Imperial use,
Don't you see the yellow label? Mind you keep them carefully for him. Don't waste any of the juice.
There's something else I want to ask you,
There's talk that the master beat Baoyu because of some tale Huan told. Did you hear that? If you did, just tell me what it was. I won't make a rumpus about it. No one will know that it was you who told me.
No, I didn't hear that,
I heard it was because Master Bao kept an actor from some prince's mansion, and they came to ask His Lordship to send him back.
That was one reason, but there was another too. 
If there's anything else I really don't know it,
I hope Your Ladyship won't think it presumptuous.
Of course not. What is it?
Actually, Master Bao does need to be taught a lesson. If His Lordship doesn't discipline him, there's no knowing what may happen in future.
Gracious Buddha!
Dear child, I'm glad you are so understanding -- that's exactly how I fed. Of course I know the importance of discipline. I haven't forgotten how strict I was with Master Zhu. But there's a reason for my indulgence now. I'm getting on for fifty, and I've only the one son left; besides, he's rather delicate and the old lady dotes on him. If I were too strict so that something happened to him, or if the old lady were upset, the whole household would be turned upside down and that would be even worse. That's why he's been spoiled. I'm always scolding him, pleading with him, getting angry with him or crying over him, but after a short improvement back he slips. He'll never mend his ways unless he's made to smart. Yet if he's badly injured, I'll have no one to depend on in the future.
He's your son, madam, of course you take this to heart. Even those of us who wait on him would be happy if everyone could keep out of trouble. If things go on like this we'll have no peace either. Not a day goes by but I reason with Master Bao, yet it has no effect. It's not his fault if people of that sort make up to him, and he loses patience when we reason with him. Since you've brought this up, madam, I'd like to ask your advice about something that's been worrying me for a long time. I've never raised it before for fear you might misunderstand. In that case, not only would I be wasting my breath but taking an outrageous liberty.
Just say what's on your mind, my child,
I've heard nothing but good of you recently from everyone. I assumed it was just because you looked after Baoyu well and were pleasant to everybody. Such thoughtfulness in little things is good. That's why I treated you like one of the old nurses. Now I see you have principles too and your views coincide with mine. Just say whatever's on your mind, but don't let it go any further.
It's nothing else, only that I was hoping Your Ladyship might arrange for Master Bao to move out of the Garden.
Has Baoyu been up to anything improper?
You know, madam, what Master Bao is like and how he enjoys amusing himself with us girls. If no precautions are taken and he does something the least bit foolish -- no matter whether it's true or not -- there's bound to be talk. Lowclass people will gossip. When they're well disposed, they laud you to the skies; when they're not, they talk as if you were worse than a beast. If people speak well of him, that's as it should be. If a single slighting remark is passed, not only shall we deserve a thousand deaths - that's not important - but his reputation will be ruined for life and how will you answer for it to His Lordship? Another proverb says: A gentleman should show providence. Better guard against this now. You're naturally too busy, madam, to think of these things, and they might not occur to us either. But if they do and we fail to mention it, that would be very remiss. Lately this has been preying on my mind day and night, but I couldn't mention it to anyone else. Only my lamp at night knew how I worried!
What a wise child you are to see so far!
Of course I've given some thought to this myself, but lately I've had too much else on my mind. Now you've reminded me. I'm glad you're so concerned for our reputation. I really had no idea what a good girl you are! All right, you may go now. Leave everything to me. But I tell you this: after what you've said today, I mean to entrust Baoyu to you. You must look after him and keep him safe. That way, you'll be safeguarding me as well, and I shan't forget our obligation to you. 
Go and see what Miss Lin is doing,
If she asks after me, tell her I'm better.
I can't just go there without any excuse. Is there no message that you want to send?
Not that I can think of.
Give me something to take then, or ask to borrow something. Other-wise what am I going to say when I see her?
All right, tell her I sent you to give her these.
This is even odder!
What would she want two old handkerchiefs for? She'll flare up again and say you're teasing her.
Don't worry. She'll understand.
It's me, Qingwen.
What do you want?
Master Bao has sent you some handkerchiefs, miss.
Who gave these to him?
I suppose they're specially fine ones. Tell him to keep them for someone else, I don't need them for the time being.
They're not new,
He's often used them.
Leave them then,
I hear Cousin Bao got a whacking. What for?
You trouble-maker,
this is all your doing. And you have the impudence to ask!
What trouble have I made?
Still playing the innocent? Everyone knows you were the one who told. Do you still deny it?
If everyone said I'd killed a man, would you believe it?
Even your sister knows it was you. Would she make up something against you?
Do keep your voices down!
It will all be cleared up by and by.
Whether you told or not, it's over and done with. Don't let's quibble or make a mountain out of a molehill. Take my advice, though, and stop fooling around outside. Just mind your own business. You waste all your time with those rowdies and you're too careless. If nothing happens, well and good. But if trouble starts everyone is bound to suspect you, whether you caused it or not. Why, even I would suspect you, let alone others.
Who's been shifting the blame on to me?
I'll smash the scoundrel's teeth. It's obvious that to make up to Baoyu they're using me as a whipping-boy. Is Baoyu the king of heaven? Whenever his father whacks him the whole household's bound to be upside down for days. After my uncle caned him for misbehaving last time, it somehow came to the old lady's ears that Cousin Zhen was behind it and she summoned him to give him a big dressing-down. This time they're picking on me. Well, I'm not afraid. I'll go and kill Baoyu then pay with my life -- make a clean sweep!
You'll be the death of me, you monster,
Off to pick a fight, are you? Better kill me first.
What's all this nonsense!
You won't let me go, yet pin this thing on me for no reason at all. As long as Baoyu lives, I shall always be his whipping-boy. We'd better all die and be done with it.
Do have patience,
Mother's so upset, yet instead of soothing her you raise this rumpus. When people -- especially your own mother -- advise you, it's for your own good. You shouldn't fly into a temper.
So you 're nagging again, are you?
You're the one who started this.
You only blame me for nagging, never blame your own thoughtlessness.
Instead of blaming my thoughtlessness, why don't you blame Baoyu for looking for trouble outside? Let's take just one example -- that recent business of Qiguan. I've met Qiguan a dozen times without his making up to me once; but the very first time Baoyu met him, before he even knew his name, Qiguan gave him his girdle. That was my fault too, I suppose?
There you go again,
That's why he got beaten. This shows you're the one who told.
You want me to burst with anger,
It's not being wrongly accused that enrages me, it's this fearful fuss you make over Baoyu.
Who's making a fuss?
You started it by arming yourself and threatening to fight. Now you accuse us of fussing.
It's no use flying into a huff with me, my dear sister,
I can see into your heart. Mother's told me about your gold locket which has to be matched with jade. Naturally you looked round carefully, and now that you find Baoyu has that rubbishy thing you're bound to take his side.
Do you hear what he's saying, mother?
You know that monster always talks nonsense,
Tomorrow I'll tell him to apologize.
Cousin, look after your health! Even if you fill two vats with tears that won't cure his welts.
Why hasn't she called to see Baoyu?
Even if she's busy, you'd think she'd put in an appearance to please the Lady Dowager and Lady Wang. There must be some reason why she hasn't come.
Do go and take your medicine, miss, before the boiled water gets cold,
Must you always be hurrying me?
Whether I take it or not is none of your business.
You shouldn't stop taking medicine just because your cough's beginning to be better. Although it's the fifth month and the weather's warm, you still ought to be careful. You've been standing here in the damp since first thing this morning. It's time to go back now and rest.
Fate was unkind to Cui Yingying,
But at least she had a widowed mother and a younger brother, whereas poor Daiyu has nobody at all. The ancients said: All beauties are ill-fated. But I'm no beauty. Why should my fate be so cruel?
You pest!
Smothering my hair with dust.
Raise the curtain, Xueyan. The young lady's here.
Those are lines you often recite, miss,
Fancy him getting them by heart!
What are you doing here so early in the morning?
I came to see how you were, mother. Did he come back after I left yesterday or make any more trouble?
There, child, don't take it so to heart,
I' ll teach the monster a lesson. If anything were to happen to you, on whom could I rely?
Forgive me this once, there's a good sister,
I had a few drinks yesterday so I stayed out late, then on my way back I knocked into a friend; and that made me arrive home so drunk I've no idea what nonsense I may have talked. I don't blame you for being angry.
Don't put on that act!
I know what a nuisance you find us. You're trying to make us leave you so that you can do as you please.
How can you say such a thing, sister, not leaving me a leg to stand on? It's not like you to be so suspicious and unkind.
You accuse her of being unkind,
Was it kind what you said last night? Really you must have lost your senses.
Don't be angry, mother, and don't you worry, sister. I promise not to drink or fool about with those fellows any more, how's that?
At last you're showing some sense.
If you can stick to that, why, dragons can lay eggs,
If you catch me fooling around with them again, sister, you can spit in my face and call me a beast, not a man. I don't want to be such a trial to you both all the time. Vexing mother is bad enough; if I worry my sister too I'm less than human. Instead of being a filial son and good brother now that father's gone, I'm only upsetting you both. I'm really worse than a brute!
You've already made trouble enough without reducing mother to tears again.
When did I reduce her to tears? All right, that's enough. Forget it. I'll get Xiangling to pour you a cup of tea.
I don't want any, thank you. As soon as mother's ready we're going to the Garden.
Let me have a look at your necklace. Shouldn't it be gilded again?
You ought to make yourself some new clothes too. Just let me know what colours and patterns you fancy.
I haven't yet worn all the clothes I have. Why make new ones?
Yes, thank you, auntie. I'm sorry to have put you and my cousin to such trouble.
If there's anything you want,
Thank you, I will,
What would you like to eat?
I can have it sent over later.
I'm not really hungry, but I'd like some of that broth you once had made with small lotus leaves and lotus seeds.
Just listen to him!
You may not have expensive tastes, but you're certainly choosy to want something like that.
Have it made! Have it made!
Don't be in such a hurry, Old Ancestress,
I must try to remember where the moulds are.
The cook says those four moulds were returned, madam.
Well, I can't remember to whom I sent them,
They're in the tea pantry most likely.
Your house is really the last word in refinement,
So many shapes just for one bowl of soup! I wouldn't have known what these were for if I hadn't been told.
Why, auntie, the cooks preparing the Royal Feast last year thought this up, flavouring the dough shapes with fresh lotus leaves; but what really counts is the quality of the soup. It isn't anything special after all. Indeed, what family would often have such a soup! We did try it, though, when we first got the moulds; and he's suddenly remembered it today.
Tell the kitchen to kill a few chickens at once and make enough well-seasoned soup for a dozen people.
Why so much?
For a good reason.
This is something we seldom have, and now that Cousin Bao has asked for it, it would be a pity just to make some for him and none for the old lady and Aunt Xue. We may as well all have some while we're about it -- then even I can taste this novelty.
You monkey!
Treating people at public expense. 
That's all right,
I can afford this little treat.
Tell them in the kitchen to do their best and charge it to my account.
In the few years I've been here, careful observation has led me to the conclusion that, however clever Cousin Xifeng may be, she's no match for the old lady.
 said the Lady Dowager. 
Does that mean you don't like people who don't talk much?
Oh, they have their merits too, just as those with smooth tongues have faults. It's better not to have too much to say for yourself.
Quite so.
My sister-in-law never talks much, yet you treat her just as well as Cousin Xifeng. If you merely liked good talkers, the only ones of these girls you could fancy would be Xifeng and Daiyu.
Talking about the girls,
I'm not saying this as a compliment to Aunt Xue, but the truth is that none of our four girls can stand comparison with Baochai.
You're partial, madam,
But it's true,
The old lady's often told me privately how good Baochai is.
If there's anything special, just tell me,
I know how to make this minx Xifeng get it for us.
How you love to tease her, madam,
She's always offering you good things, but of course you don't eat very much.
Don't say that auntie,
If our Old Ancestress didn't think human flesh rancid, she'd have eaten me long ago. 
What a terrible tongue Madam Lian has!
You must be tired after standing so long.
How forgetful I am!
Do ask Miss Baochai before she leaves the courtyard to send Yinger over to make a few nets for us.
I'm glad you reminded me.
Will you send Yinger over after your meal, cousin? I want her to make me some nets if she has time.
Of course,
I'll send her presently.
That's a good child. Send her to do as he asks. If you need more hands I have plenty of girls sitting idle. You can send for any of them.
We can manage without Yinger,
She's nothing to do every day and needs something to keep her out of mischief.
Leave serving to the young people,
You sit down and chat with us.
Our Old Ancestress and Aunt Xue mustn't stand on ceremony but do as I say,
This is how we do things,
She can't carry all this single-handed,
Master Bao wants you to make some nets for him,
You'd better go with Yuchuan.
How are we to carry this hot soup all that way?
Don't worry.
Leave it to me. 
How did you two happen to arrive together?
How is your mother?
All right.
Who asked you to bring me my lunch?
The madams and the ladies, naturally.
Do pass me the broth to taste, dear sister,
I've never fed anyone. Wait till the others come back.
I don't want you to feed me but I can't get out of bed,
If you'll just pass me the bowl, you can report back so much the sooner and have your own meal. I mustn't keep you here starving. If you can't be bothered to move I'll have to fetch the bowl myself, however much it hurts.
Lie down,
What a sight you are, suffering	for the sins committed in your previous incarnations.
If you must be angry, dear sister, be angry here,
Try to keep your temper in front of the old lady and the mistress. If you carry on like this with them, you'll get another scolding.
Drink your soup, go on, I'm not taken in by that sweet talk.
Gracious Buddha!
You're hard to please.
It's got no taste at all. If you don't believe me, try it.
Now it must taste delicious!
What are you doing?
Where did you scald yourself, Yuchuan? Does it hurt?
You're the one who got scalded, not me,
No wonder Baoyu's called a handsome fool. Handsome is as handsome does, and anyone can see he's a bit touched. He scalds his own hand and asks someone else if it hurts what could be more stupid than that?
The last time I came here,
I heard several of those girls say he's downright cracked. He got drenched himself in the rain and advised someone else to take shelter. Don't you call that soft? When there's no one about he laughs and cries to himself. When he sees a swallow he talks to the swallow, when he sees a fish in the stream he talks to the fish. He sighs or mumbles to the moon and stars, and has so little spirit he even puts up with the tantrums of those pert girls. When he's in a saving mood he treasures the least scrap of thread, but at other times he doesn't mind squandering millions.
I was so busy talking I forgot you,
I want to trouble you to make me some nets.
Nets for what?
Never mind about that. Make a few of each kind.
Good gracious!
That would take ten years and more.
You've nothing to do anyway, dear sister, so do make them for me.
You're asking the impossible,
Let her first do a couple of the kind you need most.
And which are those?
Nets to hold fans, scented pouches, or sashes?
Yes,
One for a sash would be nice.
For what colour sash?
Scarlet,
A black or slate-blue net would make a good contrast, then.
What would match a light green one?
That would go well with peach-pink.
All right. Do me one also in peach-pink and another in leek-green.
What design would you like?
How many do you know?
'Incense-stick,' 'ladder,' 'lozenge,' 'double squares,' 'chains,' 'plum-blossom' and 'willow-catkins. '
What was that pattern you worked for Miss Tanchun the other day?
That was 'clustered plum-blossom. '
That would do nicely,
Your lunch is ready, misses!
Go and have lunch,
and come back as soon as you can.
How can we go when we've a visitor here?
Nonsense,
Run along.
How old are you?
Sixteen,
What's your family name?
Huang.
Then you're aptly named, because you really are a golden oriole.
My name used to be Jinying, but my young lady found that awkward and just called me Yinger instead. Now everyone's got into the way of it.
Cousin Baochai is very fond of you,
When she marries she's sure to take you along with her.
I often tell Xiren he'll be a lucky man, whoever gets the pair of you, mistress and maid.
I don't think you quite realize that our young lady, apart from her good looks, has some wonderful qualities which you won't find in anyone else in the world.
What wonderful qualities?
Do tell me, dear sister.
If I do, you mustn't let her know.
Of course not.
Why are you so quiet?
This isn't very interesting. Why not make a net for his jade?
Of course, cousin!
I'd forgotten that. But what colour would be best?
Nothing too nondescript would do,
But crimson would clash, yellow wouldn't stand out well enough, and black would be too drab. I suggest you get some golden thread and plait it with black-beaded thread to make a net. That would look handsome.
This is odd,
Her Ladyship has just sent me these two dishes.
There must be such a lot of dishes today that she has sent these for all you girls.
No, they said these were specially for me, and I needn't go over to kowtow my thanks. This seems very strange.
If they're for you, then eat them,
Don't look so puzzled.
But such a thing has never happened before. I feel rather embarrassed.
What's there to be embarrassed about?
I'll fetch the thread as soon as I've washed my hands.
If I'm able I'll certainly come and pay my respects,
Next time your master wants Baoyu to meet or entertain guests, you can tell him without reporting it to me that I've forbidden the boy to set foot outside the second gate until after the eighth month. For one thing, it will be several months before he can walk again after that terrible beating. For another, just now his stars are unpropitious, and he mustn't meet any outsiders while sacrifices are being made to the stars.
Imagine a pure, innocent girl joining the ranks of time-servers and place-seekers, who set such store by reputation!
This is all the fault of the ancients who had nothing better to do than coin maxims and codes to control stupid, uncouth men. It's too bad that in our time even those in refined ladies' chambers have been contaminated. This is an offence against Heaven and Earth which endowed them with the finest qualities.
These families never had much to do with me before. Why are they making up to me now like this?
Isn't it obvious, madam?
I fancy their daughters are working for Lady Wang. Her four chief maids get one tael of silver a month, the others only a few hundred cash apiece. Now that Jinchuan's dead they're all hoping to land this cushy one-tael job.
Of course.
Good for you. There's no satisfying some people. They've squeezed enough and no hard work ever comes their way. You'd think they'd be contented with getting their daughters off their hands, but no, they want something better. Well, it's not often they spend their money on me. Since they're doing this of their own free will I'll accept whatever they bring, but it won't make any difference to my decision.
Since Yuchuan's sister died you've been one maid short, madam,
If there's any girl you fancy, just tell me, and next month we can issue her allowance.
I don't see why we must have a fixed number of maids,
I've all I need, why not let it go at that?
What you say makes good sense, of course, madam,
This just happens to be the tradition. If even the concubines have two maids apiece, why shouldn't you have your full quota? It's only saving one tael in any case.
Very well,
You can issue the allowance but don't assign me another maid. We'll give this tael to Yuchuan. Jinchuan waited on me all that time before coming to such a sad end, it's only fair this double pay should go to her sister.
Congratulations!
That reminds me,
How much are the concubines Zhao and Zhou allowed a month?
The regular two taels each. Concubine Zhao gets another two for Huan, making four taels and an extra four strings of cash.
Are they paid in full every month?
Of course they are,
The other day I seem to have heard someone complaining that she was one string short. Why was that?
The allowance for the concubines' maids used to be one string a month, but last year the gentlemen in the treasury decided to reduce it by half - to five hundred cash for each. As each of them has two maids, that makes one string less. They can't complain this was my doing. I'd like to give them the usual amount; but since the gentlemen cut it, how can I make good the cut? I'm only the intermediary, I've no say in the matter. I merely hand out what I'm given. Several times in fact I've suggested restoring their original pay, only to be told, 'This is the quota.' I can't do more. At least I pay them on the dot each month, whereas in the past those people in the treasury always kept them waiting. They were never paid so regularly before.
Row many of the old lady's maids get one tael?
Eight before, now seven. The other one is Xiren.
That's right, Baoyu has no maids in the one-tael class, but Xiren's still counted as in the old lady's service.
Yes, Xiren still belongs to the old lady and is simply on loan to Cousin Bao, so her money comes out of the allowance for the old lady's maids. It would certainly be wrong to reduce Xiren's one-tael allowance because she's waiting on Baoyu, unless we gave the old lady another maid. And in that case, if Xiren's pay isn't cut Cousin Huan ought to have a maid with the same pay as well, to be fair. As for Qingwen, Sheyue and the other five of them, they get one string of cash apiece, while the eight younger girls like Jiahui get half a string. This is all according to the old lady's instructions, so it's no use anyone cutting up rough about it.
Just listen to her,
She rattles on like walnuts tipped out of a cart. But how clearly and fairly she puts every-thing.
Did I say anything wrong, aunt?
Of course not. But you'd save breath by speaking slower.
Now,
you must choose the old lady a good maid in Xiren's place and stop Xiren's pay, but give her two taels and one string of cash from the twenty taels I get every month. In future she's to have the same treatment as Concubine Zhao, only her share is to come from my allowance, not from the general fund.
Did you hear that, aunt?
What did I tell you?
This should have been done long ago,
Quite apart from the girl's looks where would you find another with such ladylike manners, so polite and yet so firm and principled? She really is a treasure.
You don't know half her fine qualities.
She's ten times as good as my Baoyu. I ask no better luck for him than to have her looking after him all his life.
In that case,
Why not go through the usual ceremonies and make her his concubine openly?
What business has kept you so long today, madam?
You must be feeling the heat.
It's pleasant here with the through draught, I'll cool off a bit before going on,
Well, from today on, I mean to show how ruthless I can be, and I don't care if they complain to Her Ladyship either. Rot those stupid, foul-mouthed bitches! They'll come to no good end. How puffed up they are with their own consequence! But they'll lose the lot, and sooner than they think. Blaming us, indeed, because their maids' pay is cut. Who do they think they are? Do they deserve maids?
You're overdoing it, surely!
You've no flies or mosquitoes here, so why the whisk?
So it's you, miss,
You gave me quite a start. We've no flies or mosquitoes, I know. But there's a kind of midge, so small you can hardly see it, which can get through the gauze and bite anyone who's sleeping. It's like being stung by an ant.
That's true. You've not much open space behind the house, but you've fragrant flowers all around and this room is scented too. These insects which live on the pollen of flowers are attracted to anything fragrant.
How charming!
Whose is it, to be worth so much effort?
Isn't he too big to wear such things?
It's a good thing you have the patience.
My neck aches from bending over so long today. Do you mind sitting here for a minute, miss, while I take a turn outside?
Come on,
I remember now, Xiren said she was going to the pool at noon to wash some clothes. Let's go and look for her there.
Who believes what those bonzes and Taoists say? A match between gold and jade? Nonsense! Between wood and stone more likely, I'd say.
Still not awake?
I just met Miss Lin and Miss Shi. Did they come in?
No, I didn't see them. Hadn't they something to tell you?
Some nonsense,
They were just having one of their jokes.
They weren't joking this time, I assure you.
I was just going to tell you myself when you hurried off.
There you are!
I don't see you going home now,
You've no call to talk like that.
From now on I belong to Her Ladyship. I can leave without so much as a word to you, just by getting permission from her.
Well, suppose I behaved so badly that you got leave from her and left, people hearing of it would put the blame on me. Wouldn't you feel bad about that?
Why should I? If you turn bandit, should I have to go along with you? Anyhow, there is always death as a way out. All of us must die in the end, even if we live to be a hundred. Once I've breathed my last and can't see or hear any more I'll be through with you, won't I?
All right, all right. Don't say such things.
All men must die. The thing is to die for good reasons. Those vulgar sods believe that ministers who die for remonstrating with the Emperor and generals who die in battle win immortal fame as fine, upright men -- but wouldn't it be better if they didn't die? After all, there has to be a despot on the throne before ministers can remonstrate; but they court death in their eagerness to make a name, with a complete disregard for their sovereign. In the same way, there has to be a war before generals can die in battle; so they fight recklessly and try to win glory by dying, with no thought of the country's welfare. That's why I say these aren't worthy deaths.
In my own case, if I had any luck I should die now with all of you around me; still better if your tears for me were to become a great stream and float my corpse away to some quiet spot deserted even by crows or any other birds, to vanish with the wind, never again to be born as a human being. That's how I should like to die.
Where is Lingguan?
In her room,
I've strained my voice,
Just wait a bit till Master Qiang comes,
If he asks her to sing, she will.
Where is he?
He's just gone out. Lingguan must have taken a fancy to something and he's out trying to procure it for her.
What sort of bird is that,
able to hold a flag in its beak and walk round the stage?
It's a jade-crested oriole,
How much did you give for it?
One tael, eighty cents.
Get up and look at this!
What is it?
I've brought you a bird to stop you feeling so bored. Let me show you how to put it through its tricks.
How amusing!
Like it?
It's bad enough your family cooping us up here to learn that old trash,
And now you get a bird to do the same. You've obviously bought it to make fun of us, yet you ask whether I like it.
What a fool I am!
I gave a couple of taels for this in the hope that it would amuse you, never dreaming that you'd feel this way about it. All right, I'll set it free -- to make you feel better.
That bird may not be human,
I spoke to the doctor last night,
The sun's scorching just now,
If you go off in a huff to fetch him, I won't see him.
What I said last night was wrong,
No wonder my father complains that I'm 'benighted.' It was wrong to say you'd all weep over my death. Now I know not all your tears would be for me   everyone will have his share.
You really are crazy,
I've just come from auntie,
Tomorrow is Aunt Xue's birthday, and auntie wants to know whether you'll go over or not. You'd better send someone to tell her.
I didn't even go on my uncle's birthday,
The idea!
She's on quite a different footing from His Lordship. You live close by, and she's a relative. If you don't go, she'll wonder why. If it's the heat you're afraid of, why not go first thing to kowtow and come back again after a cup of tea. Wouldn't that look better?
You should go anyway for the sake of the one who kept away the mosquitoes.
What's this about mosquitoes?
That's too bad,
How rude of me to sleep all through her visit. Well then, I must go tomorrow.
If the old lady forgets me,
I'm glad you've come,
I'd quite forgotten, I meant to go and see Third Sister. Is she better?
Yes, she's stopped taking medicine today,
It was only a slight chill.
How high-brow Third Sister's become!
I'll go now and discuss this with her.
Master Yun sends his respects. He is waiting at the back gate and told me to give you this.
Did he come all alone?
Just with two pots of flowers,
Here comes another!
Not so vulgar, was it, that sudden idea of mine?
I wrote a few invitations to see what would happen, and you all turn up in force.
We should have started a club like this long ago,
Start one if you like, but don't count me in,
I'm not up to it.
If you're not, who is?
This is a serious business,
We should encourage each other, not back out of politeness. Let's all give our ideas for general discussion. What suggestions have you, Cousin Baochai? And Cousin Daiyu?
What's the hurry?
We're not all here yet.
How very refined!
If you're going to start a poetry club, I'll volunteer to preside. I had this very idea last spring, but on second thoughts decided it would only be asking for trouble as I can't write poetry myself. So I dropped the idea and forgot it. Now that Third Sister's so keen, I'll help you get this going.
If you're set on starting a poetry club,
we must all be poets. And first, to be less conventional, we must stop calling each other 'sister,' 'cousin,' 'sister-in-law' and so forth.
Quite right,
I'll be Master of Autumn Freshness,
There's something unreal and awkward about 'master' and 'scholar,
With all these wu-tung trees and plantains here, why not use them in your name?
Yes, I know what. I like plantains best so I'll call myself The Stranger Under the Plantain.
Drag her off, quick! Stew some slices of her flesh to go with our wine.
Didn't an ancient say, 'The deer was covered with the plantain'? If she calls herself The Stranger Under the Plantain, she must be a deer. Let's hurry up and cook this venison.
Just you wait! You're very clever at making fun of people, but I've got the right name for you, a perfect name.
The wives of King Shun4 shed so many tears on bamboos that thereafter their stems became speckled, and now the speckled bamboo is called by their name. Well, she lives in Bamboo Lodge and she's always crying. When one day she pines for a husband, I'm sure the bamboos there will grow speckled too. I propose we call her Queen of the Bamboos.
I've thought of a good name for Cousin Baochai,
A short one too.
What is it?
I'm entitling her Lady of the Alpinia. How's that?
An excellent title,
How about me?
Think of one for me too.
You've already got one.
Why not keep your old title of Prince of the Crimson Cavern?
Don't bring up the silly things I did as a child.
You've already got plenty of pen-names,
What do you want a new one for? We can just call you by any name we feel like.
I've got one for you,
It's vulgar, but it suits you to the ground. The two hardest things to come by are riches and nobility, and the third is leisure. Few people enjoy more than one of these, but you have all three. So you should be called The Rich and Noble Idler.
That's too good for me.
But just as you please.
What about Second Cousin and Fourth Cousin?
Even so, you'd each better have one,
As Yingchun lives on Purple Caltrop Isle, let her be Mistress of Caltrop Isle,
And Xichun in the Pavilion of Scented Lotus could be Mistress of Lotus Pavilion.
Very good,
Now as I'm the eldest you must all listen to me. I'm sure you'll agree to my proposal. We seven are starting this club; but as Second Cousin, Fourth Cousin and I are no poetesses you must leave us out when it comes to writing, and we'll each take charge of something.
We've already got titles.
Wait till we've set up the club before laying down rules,
All righ then,
Seems funny to me, though. This was my brain-wave, but you three end up in charge.
Now that's settled,
let's go to Paddy-Sweet Cottage.
Don't be in such a hurry,
We're still in the planning stage. Wait till I invite you.
At least we should agree on how often to meet,
If we meet too often we won't enjoy it,
Let's limit it to two or three times a month.
Twice a month is enough. We'll fix dates and meet regardless of wind or rain. If anyone likes to invite people to her place or the usual place for another gathering on some other day, well and good. Wouldn't that be more flexible and greater fun?
As this was my suggestion,
you must let me play hostess first. That's only fair.
Very well then,
You can call the first meeting tomorrow.
Why not today? There's no time like the present. You set the subject, Caltrop Isle can fix the rhymes, and Lotus Pavilion can supervise.
I don't think the subject and rhymes should be decided by one per-son,
Drawing lots would be fairer.
On my way here,
I saw them carrying in two pots of white begonia which looked simply lovely. Why not write on the begonia?
Without having seen them?
How can we?
It's only white begonia,
There's no need to look at it first. The ancients wrote to manifest their own temperaments and feelings. If they'd only written about things they'd seen, we wouldn't have so many poems today.
In that case let me settle the rhymes,
Say any word that comes into your head.
Men (door).
Very well, that rhyme belongs to the thirteenth section of the rhyme system,
And that word must come in the first line.
'Pot' and 'door' aren't easy to fit in,
Are you ready, Lady of the Alpinia?
Yes, mine's done, but it's no good,
Hear that?
They've finished theirs.
Don't worry about me,
Good gracious!
There's only one inch of the incense left, but all I've done is four lines.
The incense is nearly burnt out. Do stop squatting on the damp ground.
I can't help you now,
I must write mine out, however bad it is.
We're going to look at the poems now,
Anyone who doesn't hand his in by the time we finish reading the others will have to pay a forfeit.
The Old Peasant of Sweet Paddy may not write well herself,
but she's a good judge and absolutely impartial. We'll all stand by your verdict.
Trust the Lady of the Alpinia!
Have you all finished?
How do you do it?
Splendid!
She's really original.
This is the best!
It's certainly the most charming and unusual,
But our Lady Alpinia's has deeper significance and real substance.
Quite right,
The Queen of Bamboos should come second.
And the Happy Red Prince last,
Agreed?
Mine was no good, that's quite fair,
But you should reconsider which is the better, Lady Alpinia's or Queen Bamboo's.
I'm the arbiter,
You've no say in the matter. Any more argument will be penalized.
I've decided that from now on we should meet on the second and sixteenth of each month,
And you'll have to accept the subjects and rhymes I choose. You can have extra meetings on other days if you like -- I don't care if you meet every day. But mind you come to my place on the second and sixteenth.
We must choose a name for this club,
Nothing too common,
Nothing too new-fangled either. As we happened to start with poems on begonia, why not call it Begonia Club? Even if this sounds a little commonplace, as it's based on fact that doesn't matter.
This silver is for the boys who brought the flowers,
And the cash is for you to buy drinks.
Are there any pages on duty outside the back gate?
Yes, there are four of them there every day,
If there's anything you want done, miss, we can tell them.
There's nothing I want,
But Master Bao wanted to send something today to Miss Shi in the house of the young marquis. It's lucky you came. When you go out, please tell those boys at the back gate to hire a carriage. As soon as it arrives you can come here to get the money. Don't let them knock around in the front.
What's become of that white agate plate with spiral designs?
It was used to send lichees to Miss Tanchun,
They've not sent it back yet.
There are plenty of everyday dishes you could have used. Why choose that particular one?
Just what I said. But he insisted that plate looked best with the fresh lichees. And when I took it over, Miss Tanchun liked it so much she told me to leave the fruit on it; so I didn't bring it back. Look, that pair of vases from the top shelf hasn't come back either.
Speaking of those vases reminds me of something funny,
Then I went to Her Ladyship's place just as she was looking through some cases with Madam Lian and the concubines Zhao and Zhou, sorting out the bright clothes she'd worn in her young days to give away. When I went in she stopped looking at the clothes to admire the flowers. And to please her Madam Lian started praising Baoyu for being such a considerate, filial son -- she came out with two cartloads of compliments. Her Ladyship felt that in front of everyone she had gained credit because of him, and this should silence those who had gossiped about him. She was so delighted that she gave me two gowns on the spot. Clothes are nothing special either - we're given new ones at any rate every year -- but this was a great mark of favour.
Bah, you're easily pleased,
She gives others the best and you the cast-offs, yet you feel you have big face.
Cast-offs or not, it was kind of Her Ladyship.
If I'd been you I wouldn't have taken them,
Anyone else's cast-offs I wouldn't mind; but why should someone in these rooms be superior to the rest of us? If she got the good clothes and I the cast-offs, I'd refuse them. Even at the risk of offending the mistress, I wouldn't put up with that.
Who here got the good ones?
If I tell you, will you return those gowns to the mistress?
Don't be silly. I just think it would be fun to know. Even if Her Ladyship gave me the dog's left-overs, I'd think it kind of her. I don't worry about other people's business.
You've hit the nail on the head. They were given to this foreign-species, spotted lap-dog of ours.
May all your tongues rot!
Never miss a chance to make fun of me, do you? You'll one by one come to a bad end.
So it was you, sister,
I'd no idea. I do apologize.
Stop fooling,
I wish one of you would bring that plate back.
Those vases should be fetched back too,
It'd be all right in the old lady's place, but all sorts of people go to Her Ladyship's rooms. The rest don't matter, but if Concubine Zhao and that lot saw things from here they'd try some mean trick to break them, and the mistress wouldn't pay too much attention. We'd better fetch them back before it's too late.
All right, I'll go and get them,
I'll go while you fetch the plate,
No, it's my turn,
Are you going to take all the good errands and leave none for me?
Qiuwen only got clothes that once,
How can you expect to find them looking through clothes again today? That would be too much of a coincidence.
Even if I don't see any clothes, maybe the mistress will think me so trustworthy that she gives me two taels of silver a month from her own allowance too. Who knows?
Don't try to fool me. I know all about it.
Get yourself spruced up and put on your outdoor things,
I want you to take some presents to Miss Shi.
Just give the things and message to me,
These are fresh from our Garden,
Master Bao wants Miss Shi to try them. And the other day she admired this agate plate, so she must keep it. Then here, in this silk wrapper, is the needlework she asked me to do. I hope she won't find it too clumsy. Send her our respects and the young master's greetings.
Has Master Bao any other messages?
Will you go and find out, miss, in case you've forgotten something.
Did you see him with Miss Tanchun?
Yes, they were disussing starting some sort of poetry club and all busy writing poems. I shouldn't think he has any message. She needn't wait.
How could we forget her?
I felt there was something missing, but couldn't think what it was. I'm so glad you mentioned her. I meant to invite her. Our poetry club will be no fun without her.
It's not all that important - just a way to pass the time,
She's not as free as the rest of you and has no say at home. If you tell her she'll want to come, but she may not be able, and if she can't she'll be terribly disappointed. You'll only be upsetting her.
That's all right,
I shall ask my grandmother to send and fetch her.
Miss Shi asked what Master Bao was doing. When I told her, 'Writing poems with the young ladies and starting a poetry club,' she was most disappointed you hadn't let her know. Quite a state she was in!
Don't show her yet,
You forgot to ask me; it's I who should fine you people,
How could we forget her yesterday?
 she said. ''I don't suppose they're much good, they're just made to order.
Our four poems exhausted the subject, we couldn't have written another,
Yet here you come up with two. How can you have so much to say, unless you're repeating us?
See what a good idea it was to write poems on the begonia,
How right we were to start our Begonia Club.
Tomorrow let me pay my penalty by standing treat and calling the first meeting. All right?
Perfect!
Since you've called a meeting, you're the hostess,
You're not in charge at home, and the few strings of cash you get each month hardly cover your own expenses; yet you took this on yourself quite needlessly. When your aunt hears of it she's bound to scold you. Why, your whole allowance isn't enough to stand treat. Are you going home to ask for more? Or will you ask them here for money?
Actually, I have an idea,
I'll get my brother to send us a few crates of the biggest crabs with some vats of good wine from our shop, in addition to which we'll prepare four or five tables of other refreshments. That's easily done and we'll all have a good time.
You've thought it all out!
I'm only thinking of you,
You mustn't be touchy or imagine I look down on you, because this is between friends. If you've no objection, I'll tell them to go ahead.
My dear cousin, you're being touchy instead if you talk like that,
However scatter-brained I may be, I know when someone's being good to me. At least I've that much sense. If I didn't look on you as my own elder sister, I wouldn't have confided to you last time all the troubles I have at home.
Go and ask my brother to get us several crates of big crabs like those we had the other day. Tomorrow after lunch we're inviting the old lady and my aunt to see the fragrant osmanthus in the Garden. Tell him to be sure not to forget, as I've already issued the invitations.
The themes for verses shouldn't be too outlandish. You can see that the poets of old times didn't go in for far-fetched subjects or freakish rhymes. Such things don't make for good poems and seem rather lowclass. Of course, poetry shouldn't be stereotyped, but we mustn't overdo the emphasis on originality either. So long as our ideas are fresh, the language can't be vulgar. In any case, writing poetry isn't important. Our main jobs are spinning and sewing. If we've time to spare, the proper thing for us is to read a few chapters of some improving book.
As we wrote poems on the begonia yesterday, I wonder if we could write about the chrysanthemum this time?
Yes, the chrysanthemum is suitable for autumn. The only objection is that too many poems have been written about it in the past.
That's what I feel. We could hardly avoid plagiarism.
I know,
We'll lay stress not on the chrysanthemum but on the people looking at it, and set themes about their reactions to the flower. In this way we shall have tributes to the chrysanthemum as well as descriptions of feeling. This hasn't been done before and can't be too stereotyped. In fact, this combination will have freshness and distinction.
A good idea,
But how will you introduce the feeling? Give me an example.
A Dream of Chrysanthemums for instance.
Of course. I've got one too. How about The Chrysanthemum's Shadow?
Can do, although of course it's been used before. If we have a fair number of themes we can include it. I've thought of another.
Go on!
Questioning the Chrysanthemum.
Splendid!
I know. How d'you like Seeking Out the Chrysanthemum?
Good. We may as well think of ten themes and write them out.
Ten doesn't make a set. Let's have twelve while we're about it, like those albums of calligraphy and painting.
In this case let's arrange them in the right order.
Better still!
We shall have a chrysanthemum album.
This exhausts all that men can do but, as there still remain certain aspects of the flower which can be described, ten and eleven are The Chrysanthemum's Shadow and A Dream of Chrysanthemum. And we end with The Withered Chrysanthemum to sum up all the emotions expressed before. In this way we shall cover all the fine sights and occupations of autumn.
What rhymes shall we decide on?
In general I'm against a hard-and-fast rhyme pattern,
Why should fine lines be restricted by fixed rhymes? Let's not follow that petty rule but simply set themes. We want everyone to write some fine lines for pleasure, not to make it hard for them.
I quite agree. In this way we should write better. But there are only five of us. Will each of us have to write on all twelve of these subjects?
No, that would be asking too much. We'll just copy out these themes and stipulate that the seven-character lushi form is to be used. We'll put the notice on the wall tomorrow, and people can choose whichever theme they like. If anyone's able to write on all twelve, well and good; but it's all right, too, not to do any. The winner will be the one who writes best and fastest. Once all twelve are done, those who haven't finished must stop and submit to the penalty.
What a delightful, refined idea,
We should take advantage of such an invitation.
Which would be the best spot?
It's up to you to choose, madam,
Preparations have been made in Lotus Fragrance Anchorage,
The two fragrant osmanthus trees at the foot of the slope there are in full bloom, the water flowing past is green and clear, and you get a fine view from the pavilion in midstream. It's refreshing to look at water.
Just step out boldly, Old Ancestress,
This bamboo bridge always creaks -- it doesn't matter.
Tea -- splendid! This is just the place for it,
Everything here is so clean.
Cousin Baochai helped prepare this.
Yes, I always say she's most provident, that child, and thinks of everything.
When I was young we had a pavilion like this too at home,
It was called Pillowed Iridescence or something of the sort. I was no bigger than these girls at that time and I used to play with my sisters there every day. Once I slipped and fell into the water and nearly drowned! They managed to pull me out, but a wooden bolt had gashed my head. That's how I got this dent the size of a finger-tip on my temple here. They were all afraid I was done for after that ducking and chill, but I recovered.
If you hadn't, who'd be enjoying all this good fortune today? Obviously our Old Ancestress was destined from birth to good luck and a long life: that's why the gods dented her head   to hold her good luck! The God of Longevity originally had a dent in his head too, but it was so stuffed with good fortune it swelled up instead into a bump.
This monkey's so dreadfully spoilt, she even makes fun of me,
I ought to tear out that glib tongue of yours.
We'll presently be eating crabs,
I'll make you stay with me day and night to keep me laughing,
I won't let you go home.
It's because you're so fond of her, madam, that she's so spoilt,
I like her as she is.
Besides, she never really oversteps the mark. When we've no visitors we should joke and chat, so long as the young people don't break the main rules of propriety. Why should we expect them to behave like angels?
Don't bring too many crabs,
Fetch us ten and keep the rest in the steamer, to be brought in as we need them.
Please don't trouble,
I prefer to do it myself.
You're not used to entertaining,
Go back and eat while I look after your guests for you. I'll eat after they've left.
Since you're seeing to things here, madam,
we may as well go and eat.
Yes, go along, all of you. Leave everything to me. 
Why have you come out here, madam? Do let us enjoy our crabs in peace!
This little bitch has become quite impossible!
Instead of thanking me for doing your job, you're complaining. Hurry up and pour me some wine.
Add plenty of ginger and vinegar,
How shameless!
Cadging from us.
You'd better behave,
You know your Master Lian is in love with you and means to ask the old lady to let him have you as his concubine.
Bah!
What a way for a lady to talk! I'm going to smear your face with my dirty hands to get even.
Let me off this time, good sister!
If Yuanyang becomes a concubine, Pinger will make things hot for her.
Just look at her. She's drunk a whole saucer of vinegar with less than two crabs -- that's soured her.
You foul-mouthed bitch!
Damn slut! Have you no eyes that you smear anyone?
Gracious Buddha!
This is just retribution.
What's happened?
What are you laughing at? Let us into the joke.
Madam Lian came here to steal our crabs. Then Pinger flared up and smeared her face with yellow crab meat. Now mistress and maid are scrapping.
Do take pity on the poor thing and give her some of the smaller legs and innards.
The table is covered with legs. Just help yourself, madam.
It's windy here, and you've just been eating crab, madam,
You'd better go back and rest. If you've enjoyed this you can come again tomorrow.
Very well,
I didn't want to spoil your fun by leaving; but since you suggest it, let's go.
Don't let your cousins Baoyu and Daiyu eat too much.
You two had better not eat too much either. Crabs are delicious but not very wholesome. If you overeat you'll have a stomach-ache.
There's no need for that,
It's time to write poems now. Just put the wine and dishes on the big round table in the middle there. You needn't assign seats either. We can help ourselves and sit wherever we please. Wouldn't that be more comfortable?
An excellent idea,
That's all very well,
but we mustn't forget the others.
How original! But this isn't going to be easy.
Quite right too,
I don't like hard-and-fast rhyme schemes either.
Go on with your meal. Let me pour my own wine, that's more fun.
After eating a bit of crab I've slight indigestion,
What I really want is a mouthful of hot spirits.
There's some here,
Alpinia.
Dear cousin,
I've got four lines already for the second. Do leave that one for me.
I've only just taken one, yet what a fluster you're in!
Bamboo
Red
If no one's doing Wearing the Chrysanthemum, I'll try that.
It's just been announced that no allusions to the inner chambers are allowed, so be careful!
You should have a pen-name too,
Though we've still a few pavilions and lodges at home, I'm not living there now,
And there's no point in using a borrowed name.
Just now the old lady said your house has a water pavilion called Pillowed Iridescence. That's yours all right. Even though it's in other hands now, you're after all its old mistress.
That's right,
Iridescence
Let me try to pass fair judgement now,
On the whole each poem has striking lines but, speaking impartially, I rank Writing About the Chrysanthemum first, Questioning the Chrysanthemum second, and A Dream of Chrysanthemums third; for all three show originality in the theme, ideas and style. The Queen of Bamboos will have to be given first place. Next in order of merit come Wearing the Chrysanthemum, Facing the Chrysanthemum, Displaying the Chrysanthemum, Painting the Chrysanthemum and Thinking of the Chrysanthemum.
Absolutely right. Very fair.
Mine didn't amount to much,
They're rather contrived.
But aptly so,
Not stiff and overloaded.
To my mind,
the best line of all is 'Sunset in chill garden recalls a former visit' which presents such a strong contrast. And 'Tossing my book aside I face a spray of autumn' is perfect, leaving nothing more to be said about displaying chrysanthemums, so that she had to revert to the time before the flower was plucked and put in the vase. Very penetrating, very subtle.
Quite so. Still, your line about 'sweet melodies' is even better,
Your 'short hair wet with cold dew' and 'coarse cap stained with fragrance' do full justice to the subject too.
Questions like 'With what hermit are you taking refuge?' and 'What makes you bloom so late?' are bound to stump the flower.
I daresay your sitting bareheaded and hugging your knees while you chant, refusing to leave, would get on the flower's nerves too -- if it had any. 
I'm last again,
But surely my 'Who has planted this flower?' 'Whence springs this autumn glory?', 'waxed sandals come from far away,' and 'chants endless poems' describe visiting the chrysanthemum all right? And don't 'rain last night' and 'this morning's frost' describe the planting? It's just that they're not up to such images as 'facing the moon croon their sweet melodies,' 'In the cold clean scent I hug my knees and chant,' 'short hair,' 'coarse cap, 'pale gold,' 'the marred green leaves are withering,' 'no sign is there of autumn' and 'seen in dreams.
Tomorrow when I've time, I mean to write on all twelve themes.
Your verses aren't bad,
They're not as distinctive as the others though.
Now that we're enjoying the fragrant osmanthus and eating crabs, we should write verses about this too,
I've already made one. Who else is game?
If you call that a poem,
I can write you a hundred.
No, you've exhausted your talent, you can't write any more. All you can do is to disparage other people.
Mine isn't as good as yours, so I'm burning it,
Yours is fine. Better than your chrysanthemum poems. You should keep it to show other people.
I've made a feeble attempt too,
It's not much good, but I'll write it out to amuse you. 
That's the style!
My verse will have to be burned too.
It takes real talent to get deep significance into such a small subject as eating crabs,
But as a satire, this is rather hard on the world!
What's your mistress doing? Why hasn't she come back?
She's too busy,
As she didn't get a chance to eat properly and can't come, she's sent me to ask whether there are any crabs left. If so, I'm to take a few back for her to eat.
There are plenty left,
Mostly female ones if you please!
We insist!
Oh no, you don't,
I can see the only one who counts for you is Xifeng. You won't listen to what I say.
Madam Lian says you and the young ladies mustn't laugh at her greediness, madam,
In this hamper are some caltrop cakes and chicken-fat rolls sent by Aunt Wang for you, madam, and the young ladies.
She says she knew, once she sent you here, you'd stay to amuse yourself; but you mustn't drink too much.
And what if I do?
Such a lovely girl!
What a pity she's fated to wait on other people. Anyone not in the know would take you for the mistress of the house.
Don't tickle me, madam.
My, what are these hard things?
Keys,
Why, what valuables are you afraid of people stealing that you carry these keys about on you? It's as I always say: When Monk Tripitaka1 was searching for Buddhist scriptures, a white horse turned up to carry him; when Liu Zhiyuan2 was fighting for the empire, a melon spirit appeared to give him armour. In the same way, Xifeng has you. You're her master-key. What does she want these keys for?
Now you're making fun of me in your cups, madam.
It's true all the same,
When we've nothing to do but gossip, we always agree that each single one of you girls is one in a hundred. And the wonderful thing is that each one of you has her own good qualities.
Providence orders all things, great and small,
For instance, what would the old lady do without Yuanyang? Nobody else, not eyen Lady Wang, dares contradict the old lady; but when Yuanyang does, the old lady listens to her. Nobody else can remember all the clothes and trinkets the old lady has, but Yuanyang remembers. If not for her being in charge, goodness knows how many things would have been swindled out of them. Even so, the girl's broad-minded and instead of throwing her weight about she often puts in a good word for others.
Only yesterday,
the old lady was saying she's better than any of us.
She's really fine,
We others can't compare with her.
Caixia in my mother's apartments is an honest girl too,
Yes, she appears simple,
yet she's smart. Her Ladyship is as unworldly as a Buddha, but if she overlooks anything Caixia sees to it for her. She keeps an eye on everything down to the least details of our father's affairs at home and outside. So if her mistress forgets anything she quietly reminds her.
True enough,
And think what would happen in this young gentleman's rooms, if not for Xiren's good judgement. As for Xifeng, why, even if she had the strength of the Conqueror of Chu who could lift a tripod weighing a thousand catties, how could she handle everything without Pinger here?
Four of us came with our mistress at the time of her marriage,
But the others have either died or gone, so that now I'm the only one left.
So much the better for you as well as for Xifeng,
When your Master Zhu was alive we had two maids too, and I'm not the jealous type, am I? But they bickered so much every day that after his death I married them both off while they were still young. If there'd been just one worth keeping, I'd have someone to help me now.
Why let this upset you?
You're better off without them.
Why has no one received the allowance for this month yet?
It'll be coming in a couple of days,
My mistress got this month's allowance some time ago but has loaned it out. She'll distribute it as soon as she's collected the interest. But mind you don't pass this on.
I can't believe she's short of money. Why should she put herself to all that trouble?
So the two of you, mistress and maid, have been using our money to get interest and kept us waiting like regular fools!
No, I'm not. I've nothing to spend money on, but I need a reserve for him.
If you need money urgently, I still have a few taels you can be going on with. I'll deduct it later from your allowance.
I don't need any at the moment, but if we run out I'll send somebody to fetch it.
All at home send their compliments,
We'd have come before this to pay our respects to the mistress and to you, miss, but we've been very busy on the farm. This year we managed to get in a couple of piculs more of grain and a good crop of pumpkins, fruit and vegetables. These here are our first pickings. We didn't like to sell them but kept the best for you to taste. You young ladies must be tired of the delicacies you eat every day, and you may care to try our country fare. This is just our poor way of showing our gratitude.
You're rather flushed today, miss,
Why, even your eyes are red.
I know,
I really can't drink, but Madam Li Wan and the young ladies simply forced me. I had to swallow one or two cups, which made my face red.
I wouldn't mind a drink myself, but nobody treats me,
Next time you get an invitation, miss, I hope you'll take me along.
I saw those crabs this morning,
I reckon two or three of them must weigh a catty. Three big crates like those must have weighed nearly eighty catties.
Still, I don't suppose there were enough for everyone, high and low.
Of course not,
Only people of some consequence had a couple. Of the others, some were lucky and some weren't.
Crabs that size cost five silver cents a catty this year,
That's fifty cents for ten catties. Five times fifty makes two taels fifty; three times five makes fifteen. Together with the wine and eatables, that adds up to more than twenty taels of silver. Gracious Buddha! That's enough to keep us country folk for a whole year.
Have you seen our mistress yet?
Yes,
She told us to wait.
It's getting late. We ought to be going. If we found the city gate closed we'd be in a fine fix.
True,
I'll go and see what she's doing.
Luck must be with you today, granny,
The two ladies have taken quite a fancy to you.
Madam Lian was with the old lady,
That's not all either. The old lady happened to overhear us and asked, 'Who's this Granny Liu?' When that was explained by Madam Lian she said, 'I've been wanting to have a chat with some experienced old soul. Ask her over to see me.' Who could have imagined such a stroke of luck?
I'm not fit to be seen,
Good sister, just tell her I've left.
Go on, don't worry about that,
Now what is it?
It's late, miss,
My mother's ill and wants me to go for a doctor. Can I have a few hours off, please?
A fine lot you are,
It's quite true that his mother is ill,
Do let him go, miss.
Come back early tomorrow then,
And listen, I've an errand for you, so don't wait till the sun bakes your behind before coming back. And take a message for me on your way to Lai Wang. Tell him from the mistress that if he doesn't bring in the rest of that interest tomorrow, she doesn't want it -- he can keep it for himself.
Greetings, Goddess of Long Life!
How old are you, venerable kinswoman?
Seventy-five.
We're born to put up with hardships, madam, and you to enjoy good fortune,
If we were all like you, who'd do the farming?
And your eyes and teeth, are they still good?
I can't complain. But this year one of my back teeth on the left side has come loose.
I'm old and useless now,
My sight's failing, I'm hard of hearing, and my memory's going. I can't even remember all our old relatives. When they call I don't see them for fear they'll laugh at me, I've become so helpless. All I can do is eat pap, sleep, or amuse myself for a while with these grandchildren when I'm bored.
That's your good fortune, madam. We couldn't manage it even if we wanted to.
Good fortune? I'm nothing but a useless old thing.
Just now Xifeng told me you've brought us a lot of pumpkins and vegetables,
I've asked to have them cooked at once. I've been longing for some freshly picked things of this kind. Those we buy outside aren't as good as yours, straight from the fields.
This is rough country fare but at least it's fresh,
We'd rather eat meat and fish ourselves, only we can't afford it.
Now that we relatives have met, you mustn't leave with nothing to show for your visit. If you don't dislike our place, do stay for a couple of days. We have a garden too with fruit in it. Tomorrow you must try some and take some home, to show you've visited your relatives here.
Though our place here isn't as large as your farm we have a couple of empty rooms,
Do stay for a day or two, and tell our old lady some of your village news and stories.
You're not to make fun of her, you baggage,
She's an honest village woman, how can she stand up to your teasing?
In our village we grow grain and vegetables year in, year out,
Last winter, for example, the snow fell for several days on end and piled up on the ground three of four feet deep. I got up early one day and hadn't yet left the house when I heard a noise from the woodpile. I peeped through the window, thinking it must be someone filching our firewood. But it wasn't anybody from our village.
I suppose it was some passer-by who felt cold,
Seeing fuel ready at hand he took some to make a fire. That might well be.
It wasn't a passer-by either,
It's not serious,
Don't alarm the old lady.
It'll soon be put out,
Do go back inside, madam.
Why was that girl taking firewood when the snow lay so deep? Did she catch cold?
It was this talk about firewood that caused the fire,
Yet you still keep on asking about it. Don't mention it any more. Let's talk about something else.
To the east of our village,
The fact is, this old woman had only one son. This son, too, had just the one son; but they only managed to bring him up to the age of seventeen or eighteen when he died, nearly breaking their hearts. In due time, sure enough, another son was born to them. He's just fourteen now, as plump and white as a snowball and the sharpest lad you ever set eyes on. This shows, doesn't it, that there really are gods and spirits?
Yesterday Xiangyun treated us,
When we go back let's talk over our next meeting and how to ask her back. Suppose we invite the old lady to come and look at the chrysanthemums?
The old lady says she means to give a party herself in return for Xiangyun's, and we'll be invited too,
So we'd better wait till after that.
If we wait until it's cold, though, the old lady may not like it.
Writing poems in the snow?
I don't think that would be half as much fun as building a woodpile and having a campfire in the snow.
In the fields just north of our village there stands a small shrine,
It wasn't built for any god or Buddha, but there was once a gentleman ....
Never mind,
Names don't matter, just tell me the story.
This gentleman had no son, only one daughter called Mingyu,
She could read and write and was her parent's most precious treasure, but when she reached the age of seventeen the poor girl fell ill and died....
What happened afterwards?
Her parents were so heartbroken that they built this shrine, had an effigy made of the girl, and kept someone there to burn incense and keep the lamp burning. That was many years ago. Those people are dead now, the temple is in ruins, and a spirit has taken possession of the effigy.
It's not that a spirit's taken possession of it,
The rule is that people of this kind are immortal.
You don't say! Gracious Buddha! If you hadn't told me, I'd have sworn it was magic. She often takes human form to roam about through the villages, farmsteads and highways, and it was she who took that firewood. In our village they're talking of smashing up this image and razing the shrine to the ground.
Don't let them do that!
It would be a great sin to destroy that shrine.
I'm glad you told me, sir,
When I go back tomorrow I'll stop them.
My grandmother and my mother are both charitable people. In fact, our whole family, old and young, like to do good deeds and give alms; and they take the greatest delight in building temples and having images made. So tomorrow I'll draw up a subscription notice to collect donations for you. When enough contributions have come in, you can take charge of repairing the shrine and restoring the image, and every month I'll give you money for incense. Wouldn't that be a good thing?
If you do that I'll have a few cash to spend too, all thanks to this young lady!
Did you find it?
You must have got it wrong, Master Bao. You led me a fine dance,
It's not where you said, and the name's different too. So it took me a whole day to track it down. Then I found a tumbledown temple in the fields to the northeast.
Granny Liu's old,
Her memory probably plays tricks with her. Well, what did you find? Go on!
The temple gate faces south all right, and the place is tumbling down. I was fed up with hunting for it, and as soon as I saw it I said to myself, 'At last!' I marched straight in. One look at the image, though, made me take to my heels - it's so fearfully lifelike!
She can take human form, so naturally she looks lifelike,
But it isn't a girl.
It's blue-faced and red-haired -- the God of Plague!
You useless fool,
You can't handle the least little job.
I don't know what books you've been reading, Master Bao, or what nonsensical talk you've been swallowing, to send me on a wild-goose chase of this sort. And now you say I'm useless.
Don't get so worked up,
You must try again some other day when you've time. If she was having me on, of course there's no such place; but if there is, you'll be doing a good deed and you can be sure I'll reward you handsomely.
Some girls from the old lady's apartments are waiting for you, Master Bao, at the inner gate.
Come quickly,
The old lady's waiting for you.
 said Baoyu. 
How busy you are, madam!
I knew you wouldn't be able to leave yesterday,
The old lady made me stay to enjoy myself for a day,
Madam Lian says there may not be enough teapoys out: we'd better unlock the attic in the tower and fetch some down to use for a day. She wanted to see to it herself, but she's talking with Lady Wang. So do you mind opening the attic, madam, and having the things brought out?
Careful! Steady on! You're not being chased by ghosts. Mind you don't bump them.
Would you care to go up too and have a look?
Gracious Buddha!
How bright and early you are, madam!
Come here and take a few flowers to wear!
Let me make you beautiful, granny!
I don't know what meritorious deed my head's done to deserve this good fortune,
What a dash I'm cutting today!
Why don't you pull them out and throw them in her face?
She's got you up to look a real old vampire.
I'm old now, but when I was young I was flighty too and fond of flowers,
So it's right I should be an old flibbertigibbet today.
Well, what do you think of this garden'?
Gracious Buddha!
We country folk come to town before New Year to buy pictures to stick up; and when we're at a loose end we often say, 'If only we could take a stroll in these pictures !' We always reckoned the places shown were too good to be true, but coming to this garden today I can see it's ten times better than any painting. I wish someone would paint me a picture of it to show the folk at home. Then I'd die content.
See this young grand-daughter of mine?
She can paint. Shall I get her to do a painting for you tomorrow?
Why, miss! So young and pretty, yet so clever too -- you must be a goddess come down to the earth.
Come up here, granny,
That moss is slippery.
That's all right, I'm used to it,
Just go ahead, young ladies. Take care not to get your embroidered slippers dirty.
You wretches!
Help her up. Don't just stand there laughing.
That was to punish me for boasting,
Did you strain your back?
Let one of the maids pummel it.
I'm not so finicky. Hardly a day goes by without my falling. How could I get someone to pummel my back each time?
No tea for us,
Don't trouble to pour any more.
This must be the young master's study,
This is my grand-daughter's room.
This isn't like a young lady's chamber,
But it's far better than the best study.
Where is Baoyu?
Boating on the lake,
Who ordered boats?
I did,
As we were fetching things from the attic just now, it occurred to me you might feel inclined for a turn on the lake, madam.
You must be in good spirits, madam, to have come here so early.
Only a minute ago I was saying all late-comers must be fined,
This gauze is pretty when new,
but it soon loses its vivid emerald colour. Anyway, as there are no peach or apricot trees in this courtyard and the bamboos are green themselves, green gauze is out of place here. We used to have window gauze in four or five colours, I remember. Tomorrow we shall have to change this for her.
When I opened the storeroom yesterday,
I saw several rolls of pink cicada-wing gauze in one of the chests. There are several different designs -- sprays of blossom, floating clouds and bats, butterflies and flowers -- the colours so vivid and the gauze so soft, I've never seen anything like it. I took out two rolls, thinking they'd make good coverlets.
Bah!
Everybody says there's nothing you haven't seen or done, but you don't even know what this gauze is. You must stop bragging in future.
However knowledgeable she may be, she can't compare with you, madam,
Do enlighten her and let us hear as well.
Yes, good Ancestress, do enlighten me,
That gauze is older than any of you. No wonder she mistook it for cicada-wing gauze. As a matter off act, the two are so alike that those not in the know always mix them up. Its proper name is soft-mist silk.
What a charming name,
I've seen hundreds of kinds of silk, but never heard of this one.
How long have you lived?
How many rarities have you seen? What have you to brag about? This soft-mist silk comes in four colours only: light blue, russet, pine-green and pink. Used for bed-curtains or window gauze, from a distance it looks like smoke or mist -- that's how it got its name. The pink's also called rosy-cloud gauze. Even the Imperial gauze used in the Palace today isn't so soft and fine.
I'm not surprised Xifeng hadn't seen it before,
I'd never even heard of it either.
That's it!
We used it first just for windows, then found it was good for quilts and bed-curtains too. You must get some more out tomorrow and screen the windows here with some of the pink.
Gracious Buddha!
We couldn't afford to make clothes of this. It seems a shame to use it for windows.
Clothes of this don't look well,
Look at this tunic of mine.
Very nice too,
This is made nowadays for the Palace. Still, it can't compare with the other.
You mean to say this shoddy stuff is made for the Imperial use?
Why, it's not even up to the gauze made for officials.
We must see if there's any more of the blue,
If there is, give a couple of rolls to Granny Liu to make a bed curtain. What's left can be matched with some lining and made into lined sleeveless jackets for the maids. Don't leave it there to be spoiled by the damp.
Let's stroll on,
Why should we stay cooped up here?
Everyone says 'The great live in great houses.' When I saw your room yesterday, madam, it was a grand sight with all those big cases, big wardrobes, big tables and big bed. The wardrobes alone are bigger and higher than one of our whole rooms. No wonder you keep that ladder in the back yard. I couldn't think at first what it was for, as you don't sun things on the roof. Then I saw it must be for opening the tops of wardrobes to take things out or put them in, for without a ladder how could you get up? But this small room is even better furnished than that big one, with all these fine things -- whatever they're called -- in it. The more I see of it, the less I want to leave.
I'll show you better places than this,
Since they've got the boats ready, we may as well go aboard,
Wherever the old lady chooses,
Your third cousin's place is pleasant. Take some people there to get it ready while we go by boat.
We often say that when the gentlemen feast outside they've someone who can raise a laugh to entertain them. Today we've a female entertainer too.
Yes, she should be good for some laughs today,
You're up to no good,
As bad as children. Mind the old lady doesn't scold you!
You won't be involved. Just leave the old lady to me,
Bring that small cedar table over here,
I want our kinswoman to sit next to me. 
This is the custom of our house,
If you disregard it people will laugh at you.
Don't forget!
Don't worry, miss,
Why, these prongs are heavier than our iron shovels,
How can I handle them?
Mercy!
My precious!
Even your hens here are refined,
laying such tiny, dainty eggs as these. Well, let me 'fuck' one of them.
That wretch Xifeng's up to her tricks again,
Don't believe a word she says.
fuck
They cost one tael of silver each. Better try one while they're hot.
A tael of silver!
And gone without a sound.
This isn't a formal banquet. Who gave her those chop sticks?
This is all the doing of that minx Xifeng. Get her another pair.
After the gold comes the silver,
If there's poison in the dish,
the silver will show it.
Poison! If this food is poison, ours is pure arsenic. But I'm going to finish the lot, even if it kill me.
You mustn't take offence,
We were only having fun just now.
Don't be cross, granny,
Please accept my apologies.
What a thing to say, miss!
We were trying to amuse the old lady, why should I be cross? When you tipped me off, I knew it was all in fun. If I'd been annoyed I would have kept my mouth shut.
That sister-in-law there brought me some just now,
No more, thank you. You ought to have your own breakfast now, miss.
Come and eat with us,
What's happened to all the left-overs?
Nothing's been done with them yet,
They're still waiting here to be shared out.
There's more than enough for the people here,
Choose two dishes for Pinger and send them round to Madam Lian's quarters.
She's eaten already,
There's no need.
If she doesn't eat them your cat can have them,
Where's Suyun?
They'll all eat here together,
Why single her out?
That's all right then,
Xiren's not here,
You might send her a couple of dishes.
Here's a cricket!
Here's a locust!
Little wretch!
That wu-tung tree under the eaves looks well,
It's not sturdy enough though.
Who's having a wedding?
We must be quite near the street here.
Not near enough to hear sounds from the street,
It's those child-actresses of ours rehearsing their music.
If they're rehearsing, let's get them to do it here. It'll be a little outing for them and we'll have fun too.
No, let's use that lake pavilion by Lotus Fragrance Anchorage,
Music sounds better on the water. And we can drink in the Tower of Variegated Splendour which is roomy and within easy hearing distance.
Let's go. These girls don't really welcome visitors for fear their rooms may be dirtied. We mustn't impose on them. So let's go boating and then have a few drinks.
What a thing to say! We only wish you'd come more often.
Yes, my third grand-daughter's good that way,
It's Daiyu and Baoyu who are so pernickety. On our way back, when we're tipsy, we must go there just to annoy them.
It's not as easy as it looks!
We're not on the river, it's true, but it's fairly deep here. So don't try, and come inside at once.
It's quite safe,
Don't worry, Old Ancestress.
How disgusting those withered lotus leaves look,
Why not get people to pull them out?
What time has there been for that?
We've been out here enjoying ourselves every day recently.
That's a good line,
All right, we won't have them pulled out.
Isn't that where Baochai lives?
What a goose this child is!
Why not ask your aunt for some knick-knacks? It didn't occur to me, I just didn't think. Of course you left all your own things at home.
Why didn't you send over some pretty things for your cousin? How very stingy!
She wouldn't have them,
She returned all the ones we sent.
She doesn't care for such things at home either,
This will never do.
I used to have a flair for decorating rooms, but now that I'm old I haven't the energy. These girls should learn how to fix up their rooms too. The only trouble is if you've a vulgar taste, for then you'll make even handsome things look frightful; but I wouldn't call our girls vulgar. Now let me fit out this room for you, and I promise it'll be in quiet yet excellent taste. I've a couple of nice things which I've managed to keep by not allowing Baoyu to set eyes on them -- if he had, they'd have disappeared.
Fetch that miniature rock garden, that little gauze screen and the dark steatite tripod. Those three things will do nicely for the desk. And fetch those white silk bed-curtains with the ink painting and calligraphy in place of these.
Very good, madam,
But those things are in some cases in the east attic. They may take a little finding. Suppose I get them tomorrow?
Tomorrow or the day after, it doesn't matter. Don't forget, that's all.
Just choose a few you want to rehearse,
Let's begin with a few cups of wine. It would be fun to play a drinking game.
I know you're good at drinking games, madam,
But how can we play them? If you just want to get us drunk, let's simply drink a few cups more apiece.
How modest you are today!
Do you find me too old for this company?
Even if we can't answer,
Very well then,
But you must start off with a cup, madam.
Of course.
If we're to have a game, let Yuan-yang take charge.
If you're joining in, there's no reason why you should stand,
Drinking rules are as strict as martial law. Now that I'm in charge I'll be no respecter of persons -- anybody who disobeys me must pay a forfeit.
Of course. Hurry up and tell us the rules.
Don't make fun of me like this. I'm leaving,
That won't do,
Anybody who speaks out of turn again will be made to drink a whole pot of wine,
I shall use three dominoes,
We'll start with the old lady and go round in turn, ending with Granny Liu. For example, I'll take a set of three dominoes and read out what's on each of the three in turn, ending with the name of the set. You must say either a line of classical poetry, a proverb or an adage after each; and they must rhyme. A cup of wine is the forfeit for any mistake.
Here's a set,
On the left is the 'sky'
The sky is blue on high,
Bravo!
In the centre's a 'five and six,'
Six bridges with the scent of plum admix.
The last piece is 'six and one.
From fleecy clouds rises a round red sun.
Together they make a 'ghost distraught. '
By his leg the ghost-catcher he's caught.
Here's another set. The one on the left is a 'double five. '
Plum blossom dances when soft winds arrive.
A 'double five' again here on the right.
In the tenth month plum blossom scents the height.
In the middle 'two and five' make seven.
The Weaving Maid and Cowherd3 meet in Heaven.
The whole: O'er the Five Peaks the young god wends his way.
Immortal joys are barred to mortal clay.
Here's another set,
On the left 'two aces' combine.
The sun and moon on earth and heaven shine.
On the right 'double aces' are found.
The idle flowers fall, noiseless, to the ground.
In the middle, a 'four and a one. '
Red apricot leans on clouds beside the sun.
Together: The cherries ripen nine times in all.
Birds in the Palace orchard make them fall.
Next one,
On the left is a 'double three. '
Pairs of swallows chirp merrily.
Another 'double three' upon the right.
The wind-trailed weeds seem belts of malachite.
In the middle, 'three and six' make nine.
Three hills across the azure sky incline.
Together: A lonely boat moored by a chain.
The wind and waves bring sorrow in their train.
The sign of 'heaven' on the left.
A fair season, a season bereft.
In the middle a 'screen' finely wrought.
No maid a message to the gauze window has brought.
That leaves only eight, by 'two and six' shown.
Together they pay homage at the jade throne.
Combined: A basket in which to gather posies.
On her fairy wand she carries peonies.
On the left, 'four and five' make nine.
The peach blossom is heavy with rain.
Fine her! Fine her!
That doesn't rhyme. Besides, why peach blossom?
We country folk sometimes get together and play this when we've nothing better to do,
Mind you, our answers aren't so fine-sounding as yours. Still, I suppose I must try.
It's easy,
Just go ahead, it doesn't matter.
A farmer?
Good,
That's the style.
We country people can only talk about the things we know,
You mustn't make fun of me.
'Three and four,' green and red, in the centre.
A big fire burns the hairy caterpillar.
That's right. Go on in your own way. Yuanyang said, 
A turnip and head of garlic in one place.
They make up 'flowers' in all.
And a huge pumpkin forms when the flower fall.
Tell me,
what is Cousin Baochai doing here? I remember my father choosing Cousin Lin to marry me, so how did she get driven out by Cousin Baochai? Why should she force her way in here? I don't like to ask her for fear of offending her. And what news have you of Cousin Lin? Is she crying her heart out?
Miss Lin is ill.
I'll go and see her then.
I'm dying!
But I've one request which I beg you to pass on to the old lady. Cousin Lin will be sobbing herself to death too and T'm done for now anyway, so that's two of us mortally ill in different places. If we die apart that' 11 make more trouble for you, so why not turn out a spare room and move the two of us there? You can nurse us both together while we're still living, and when we're dead you can lay us out together. For the sake of our friendship these years, please do this for me!
Why talk in that unlucky way instead of resting well so as to recover?
The old lady's just feeling a bit easier in her mind, yet here you are starting fresh trouble. You've always been the old lady's favourite, and now she's over eighty. Though she's not expecting you to win her honours, if you turn out well that will please her and the pains she's taken over you won't be wasted. As for your mother, it goes without saying she's given her heart's blood to bring you up, and if you die young what's to become of her? And I, though I may be ill-fated, don't deserve this. Because of the three of us, even if you want to die Heaven won't allow it! So just rest quietly for four or five days till you're over this chill and your vital forces are restored; then this disorder will naturally disappear.
You stopped talking to me for so long, why start haranguing me now?
Let me tell you the truth.
While you were in a coma for two days Cousin Lin died.
Is that true?
Excuse me,
What is this place?
The way to Hell,
But what are you doing here? Your span of life has not ended.
I just heard that a friend had died, and looking for her here I lost my way.
What friend?
Lin Daiyu of Suzhou.
Lin Daiyu in life was no ordinary mortal; in death she is no ordinary ghost,
As she has no ghost, where can you find her? The spirits of men assume a form only when concentrated; when dissipated they change into vapour. In life they have a form; after death they scatter. So even ordinary mortals cannot be traced after death, let alone Lin Daiyu. You had better go back at once.
If you say the spirit is dissipated after death, why should there be a Hell?
Hell exists for those who believe in it,
Because the vulgar herd are afraid of death they tell cautionary tales about the wrath that Heaven visits on fools who are not content with their lot or senselessly cut short their lives by indulging in lust or running amok, making away with themselves for no good reason. So Hell has been dreamed up as a prison where such ghosts will suffer endless torments to expiate their crimes during their lifetime. By searching for Daiyu, you are courting death unjustifiably. The more so, as she has already returned to the Illusory Land of Great Void. If you want to find her, you must cultivate virtue and you will have occasion to meet again. If you chafe at your lot and commit the crime of cutting short your life, you may see your parents again but never Daiyu!
Strange!
His pulse is steady and there is no sign now of melancholia. We'll give him a restorative tomorrow, and can hope for a cure.
You don't understand,
Come what may, I'll take the responsibility.
The master chose Miss Baochai for you because she's so affable and good,
He thought Miss Lin eccentric and suspected that she hadn't long to live. As for the old lady, she was afraid you might get worked up as you'd taken leave of your senses, so she had Xueyan brought over here to trick you.
match between gold and jade.
That can wait. We're already husband and wife, but the main thing now is to recover your health.
I'm done for! You've served me for several years, and I'd hoped that the two of us could always stay together. But now.... 
Sister!
I have no dear one here, I have lived chastely.... Get them to send me home!
Look at Miss Lin, miss!
Baoyu, Baoyu! How....
Well done,
But why didn't you let me know before to save me worrying?
How could we, when seeing the master off?
At least the two of you took pity on her,
Very well then, I must go back to cope with the lovesick one over there. What a to-do! Not to report it today would be wrong; but if I report it I'm afraid it may be too much for the old lady.
Do as you think fit,
If possible, you should report it.
I have her death on my conscience,
But the child was really too foolish!
Tell her spirit from me,
it's not because I'm heartless that I'm not coming to see you off, but there's someone closer here whom I have to see to. As my daughter's daughter you are dear to me; but Baoyu is closer to me even than you. If any harm comes to him, how am I to face his father?
You were very good to her, madam,
But each one's span of life is fixed by Heaven, and now that she's dead there's nothing we can do except give her the best funeral possible. That will show our feeling for her, and her mother's spirit and hers can rest in peace.
Baoyu is asking for you, madam.
Has anything happened?
No, nothing,
I expect he just wants to see you.
As all the preparations are made, I won't go over for the time being,
Do as you think fit. Seeing her would make my heart ache. But mind you give her a handsome funeral.
Last night I saw Cousin Lin,
She wants to go back south. I'm sure you're the only one who can keep her here for me, madam. Don't let her go!
All right. Don't worry,
I heard that Cousin Lin was unwell,
Is she any better?
I'll tell you, child, but don't let Baoyu know. It's all because of your Cousin Lin that you've been so unfairly treated. Now that you're married I can tell you the truth: your Cousin Lin died a couple of days ago at the very hour of your wedding. This illness Baoyu has is because of her. You used to live together in the Garden, so I'm sure you know what I mean.
If Baoyu breaks down again, send us word at once.
We own Baoyu's life to you,
Now he seems out of danger, but we've wronged your daughter. As he's convalesced for the prescribed hundred days and recovered his health, and as the mourning for Her Imperial Highness is over too, it's time for them to consummate their marriage. Please make the decision and choose a lucky day for this.
You know best, madam. Why ask me?
Baochai may look stupid but she had good sense you know what she's like, madam. I only hope the young couple will live in harmony to spare you worry, and then my sister and I can be easy in our minds too. You settle on a date, madam.... Is there any need to notify relatives?
For Baoyu and your daughter, this is the biggest event in their whole lives. Besides, think of all the trouble we had before things turned out well. We must celebrate for a few days and invite all our relatives. For one thing, it'll be a thanksgiving for Baoyu's recovery; for another, drinking on this happy occasion will make up to us for all the worries we've had.
I don't think that's necessary,
as we were relatives before this marriage. Their rooms already fully furnished; but if there are any things Baochai specially likes you can bring them over, aunt. The child has never struck me as narrow-minded like Daiyu that was what made her die so young.
What are you ladies discussing?
We were speaking about your Cousin Lin,
Well, don't be upset,
I've just heard a good joke which I mean to tell you.
Whom are you making fun of this time I wonder? Go ahead and tell us. But if it isn't funny, lookout!
Can you ladies guess whom this joke is about?
Our new bridegroom and his bride!
One was sitting like this, one standing like this,
One turned away like this, one wheeled round like this. Then one....
Tell us properly!
Yes, just tell us straight out,
No need to act it.
Just now I went to Cousin Bao's place and heard laughter in his room. I wondered who was there and peeped through the window. Cousin Baochai was sitting on the edge of the kang, with Cousin Bao standing in front of her. Re pulled her sleeve and pleaded, 'Do talk to me, cousin! One word from you would cure me completely – I swear it!' But Baochai turned her head away, refusing to meet his eyes. He bowed to her then and tugged at her jacket. When she wrenched away, of course his legs were so weak after his illness that he toppled over and fell on top of her. Then blushing scarlet she scolded, 'You're getting more and more undignified!
Baoyu got up then,
Re said with a grin, 'It's lucky I toppled over -- that loosened your lips.
How strange of Baochai,
What's wrong with having a bit of fun now that they're married? Hasn't she seen how you and Lian carry on?
What way is that to talk?
I was telling you a joke to cheer you up, aunt, but you make fun of me instead.
Quite right and proper too. Of course a husband and wife are fond of each other; still, they ought to keep within bounds. What I like about Baochai is her sense of dignity. I only worry because Baoyu is still such a simpleton; but judging by what you say, his mind is much clearer now. What other jokes can you tell us?
Soon Baoyu will have consummated his marriage, and then Aunt Xue will have a grandson to dandle won't that be a still better joke?
You monkey!
It was all very well for you to cheer us up when we were grieving over your Cousin Lin, but now you're getting cheeky. Do you want us to forget your Cousin Lin? You've no call to gloat, because she hated you; so don't go to the Garden all alone or her ghost may pounce on you to have her revenge!
She bore me no grudge,
It was Baoyu who made her grind her teeth with rage just before she died.
Stop talking nonsense,
Go and get people outside to choose the most auspicious day for Baoyu to round off his marriage.
spiritual understanding.
How come you've lost that ready wit you used to have?
If you'd forgotten your foolish ways that would be fine; but you're just as bad as before - the only change is that you've grown more dimwitted.
Another fortnight like this,
and we'll have to pawn all our clothes. And when our creditors dun us, what shall we do? There's all this glittering silver under our noses, but we can't lay hands on it.
You gentlemen at least didn't sink any capital into landing your posts. We're the ones who've been sold out: we spent pots of silver to get these jobs, but after more than a month here we haven't made a single cent! If we stick to this master, we shall probably never recoup our capital.. Tomorrow we're going in a group to resign.
You wanted to work here; now you want to leave. Since you dislike these posts, do as you please.
Those able to leave have gone,
But as we can't, we must think of some way out.
What a useless lot you are, getting so het-up! While those runners were around, I couldn't be bothered to give them a tip-off. Now that they've been starved out, I'll show you what I can do. Our master will have to listen to me! If we just work together to make some money, we can enjoy ourselves when we get home. If you won't do as I say, I shall wash my hands of you--I can get the better of you any day.
 said the others. 
 the rest replied. 'We’d never do that. However little we get, it will be better than dipping into our own pockets.
What do you want him for?
The Grain Commissioner has been here for over a month, and in view of his strict orders the local magistrates know they can't ask for favours, so none of them has opened the granaries yet. But once the time is up for grain to be shipped out, what will you gentlemen have come here for?
Don't talk nonsense,
Our master is most systematic and always keeps his word. These last two days he has been meaning to expedite the delivery. Re only put it off because I asked for a few days' delay. What do you want Mr. Zhou for anyway?
Just to ask about the order to expedite the delivery -- that's all.
Stop talking rot! You made that up because of what I just said. Don't try any hanky-panky, or I'll get the commissioner to have you beaten and dismissed!
My family has worked in this yamen for three generations,
We're respected hereabouts and not badly off; so we can afford to serve this commissioner on the level until his promotion. We're not like those waiting for rice to put in their pan.
I'll take my leave of you now, sir.
Can't you take a joke?
Don't be so thin-skinned.
It's not that. But if I say any more, won't I be damaging your good reputation?
What's your honourable name?
We all know how sharp you are, Mr. Li. You had me scared stiff just now!
Things used to be orderly enough,
Why are there so many absentees today?
What's come over those servants who accompanied me here?
Not a day has passed without my pulling them up,
But somehow or other they're all so dispirited there's nothing I can do about it, sir. How much money does Your Lordship want us to fetch from home? I've heard that the governor will be celebrating his birthday in a few days, and all the other officials are sending him thousands of taels. Row much shall we send?
You know how it is, sir. We're new here and haven't had much to do with those other gentlemen; so why should they send us word? They're only hoping you won't call to congratulate him, sir; so that when you're dismissed they can get your lucrative post.
 Jia Zheng retorted. 
You're right, of course, sir,
But the capital is far away, and it's the governor who reports on everything here. If he commends you, you are a good official; if he finds fault you're likely to lose your job. By the time the court learns the truth, it is too late. Our old lady and the other mistresses are all longing for you to have a magnificent success here.
Why didn't you tell me earlier?
Not if what you say makes sense.
Those clerks and runners all bribed their way into this yamen; so of course they all want to feather their nests,
They have families to support. Since you came to this post, sir, and before you've achieved anything for the state, there's already been talk.
What are people saying?
When the time comes to levy grain, your yamen officials say they have orders from the new commissioner not to accept any money, and this makes it difficult for those country people who'd rather grease their palms and be done with it. So instead of praising you, sir, they complain that you don't understand the situation. But your close friend and kinsman has climbed to the top in just a few years, simply because he has the good sense to please both his superiors and his inferiors
Rubbish,
Are you implying that I lack sense? As for pleasing both superiors and inferiors, do you want me to connive with rogues - to be 'a cat sleeping with rats'?
I spoke frankly, sir, out of concern for you, not wanting to keep anything back,
If you were to go on like this till you had no achievements to your credit and your reputation was damaged, you could accuse me of disloyalty for not putting the facts before you.
What would you do in my place?
Just this, sir. While you're in your prime, with friends at court and the old lady in good health, look after your own interests. Otherwise, in less than a year you'll have spent all your family's money and made those above and below resent you too. They'll all assume that in this provincial post Your Lordship must be salting money away. So if some trouble crops up, who's going to help you? By then it will be hard to clear yourself' and too late to regret!
Are you advising me to become a corrupt official? Forfeiting my life would be of less consequence, but would you have my ancestors deprived of their noble titles?
A gentleman of your discernment, sir, must surely have noticed which officials have landed in trouble in recent years. All old friends of your Lordship's they were, and you often remarked on their probity; but now what has become of their good name? On the other hand, some relatives whom you have always run down have been promoted. It all depends on how well one handles things. You must understand the need, sir, to care for the local officials as well as for the people. Why, if you had your way, sir, and wouldn't let the local magistrates make a cent, who would handle all the work in the provinces? All you need to do is keep up appearances, living up to your good name as an honest official, while in private we underlings get the job done and take whatever blame there may be without involving Your Lordship. We have been so long in your service, sir, you can surely rest assured of our loyalty.
I can't risk my life!
If you get into trouble, I won't be responsible.
One's children's marriages do seem to be fated. I met him last year when he took up a metropolitan post, and as he took up a metropolitan post, and as he was a fellow-provincial and an old friend and I was struck by his son's handsome appearance I proposed this match at a feast, but said nothing about it to the family as it was not finally settled. When he was transferred to the coast we let the matter drop. Now I have been assigned here and he has sent this request. I consider our families well matched and think this should be a good marriage for Tanchun. However, since the family is not here I must write back to consult them.
the merchant Xue Pan of Jinling.
This is disastrous!
They've referred the matter up!
Re's done for!
Xue Pan, a native of Jinling, while travelling through Taiping County put up in Li Family Hostel. He had no previous acquaintance with the waiter Zhang San. On the day in question, Xue Pan ordered the inn-keeper to prepare wine and invited Wu Liang of Taiping County to drink with him. He sent Zhang San for the wine, but it was sour and he called for something better. Zhang San said that once he had bought it they could not change it and, annoyed by his insolence, Xue Pan dashed the wine in the waiter's face so fiercely that his hand slipped and the bowl hit Zhang San's temple just as he was stooping to pick up some chopsticks. The skin was broken, blood spurted out, and very soon he died. When the innkeeper could not revive him, he informed Zhang San's mother, who finding her son dead called in the local bailiff and reported the matter to the county yamen. The report of the post-mortem which they sent to the prefecture omitted to mention that the blow on the temple cracked the skull, making a gash one-third of an inch deep, and that there was another bruise in the small of his back. Apparently Xue Pan's hand did slip when he threw the wine, and the blow from the bowl accidentally killed Zhang San. So Xue Pan was convicted of manslaughter during a quarrel, and kept in custody until the payment of an indemnity.
 he said. 
What am I to do?
Don't worry, sir,
But even if it's come out now, officials protect each other. At most they'll admit that they didn't get the facts right, for which they will simply be dismissed or penalized. They'll never own up to having taken bribes. Don't let it weigh on your mind, sir. I'll find out more for you presently, but don't keep the governor waiting.
You don't understand,
It'll be too bad if the magistrate loses his post, and may even be otherwise penalized too, just for doing us a favour.
Well, worrying won't help. They've been waiting outside for a long time; please go now, sir.
Was it urgent business that kept you there so long, sir?
Nothing of coil sequence,
The garrison commander of Haimen is related to the governor and has written recommending me to him. For this reason, the governor paid me some compliments and said, 'Now we are relatives too.
Brother was born ill-fated,
 said Aunt Xue tearfully, “whenever you came, if you weren't consoling me I was telling you what had happened in the yamen; so I didn't let you know. We've already lost the title of Court Purveyor in the capital, and we've sold two of our pawnshops -- the proceeds went long ago. We still have one pawnshop left, but its manager has absconded with several thousand taels, for which we're sueing him. Your Cousin Ke outside asks every day for more money, and we must have spent tens of thousands from our funds in the capital. We can only make up the deficit by drawing silver from our clan funds down south and by selling our houses there. But only the other day we heard a rumour that our clan pawnshop in Jinling has been confiscated too, because it went bankrupt. If this is true, what's your poor mother to live on?
 said Baochai, in tears herself. 
Don't tell him, there's a good child,
He nearly died because of Daiyu, and he's only just recovering. If he's upset and anything happens to him, you'll have more to worry about and I shall have fewer people to whom to turn.
That's what I think,
That's why I never told him.
I want to die and be done with it!
My man's as good as dead! We may as well make a scene, all going to the execution ground for a show-down!
Dear sister-in-law!
You're no longer part of this household. You're living in comfort with that husband of yours, but I'm all on my own -- I needn't care about appearances!
Have you seen Master Ke, madam?
No,
I told you not to believe that strait-laced pose of his,
That time we sent him wine, he said he couldn't drink; but just now I saw him going to see the mistress, red in the face and tipsy. If you don't believe me, wait at our courtyard gate for him to come out. You can intercept him then and challenge him to see what he has to say.
He won't be coming out yet a while; and he's such a cold fish, why should I challenge him?
That's no way to look at it, madam. If he's well-disposed, we'll know what to do. If not, we'll make other plans.
You're in high spirits, Master Ke, today. Where have you been drinking?
Today is Mr. Zhang's birthday,
They forced me to drink half a goblet. Even now my face is still burning....
Of course other people's wine tastes better than ours at home!
How can you say such a thing, sister-in-law!
You mean you were forced to drink?
Of course. I can't drink,
It's best not to drink -- much better than landing in trouble through drinking like your cousin, so that when you take a wife she becomes a lonely grass widow like me, poor thing!
Sister-in-law!
Remember who you are!
Just come on in,
I've something important to tell you.
Madam! xiangling is here.
It's good that his family comes from our district,
But you say that boy visited our house -- why didn't your husband mention this before?
We didn't know it ourselves at the time,
It's a good match but too far away. Though the master is in the south now, if he gets transferred in future won't the child be lonely there all by herself?
We're both official families, with no knowing where the next post will be. Their family may be transferred to the capital. Anyway, 'Leaves that fall return to their root in the end.' As the master's been posted there, and this was proposed by his superior, how can he refuse? I think he must approve, but not presuming to make the decision himself he sent the servant to ask your consent, madam.
It's all right if you're both willing. But once Tanchun's gone who knows how long it'll be before she can come home. Any later than two or three years and I may never see her again!
When our girls grow up we have to marry them off,
Though Tanchun's not my child, since the master's agreed to this match after seeing the boy, I feel sure it must be all right. So please give your consent, madam, then we'll choose a good day to send her off, well escorted, to join her father. He'll see that everything is done in style.
Very well, as her father approves, get everything ready and choose a day for setting off on this long journey,
That will be another business settled.
Very good, madam.
Of all the girls in our family she's the best, yet now she's going so far away to get married -- there are fewer and fewer of us here every day.
You're going up in the world, miss,
Third Sister,
I heard that you were there when Cousin Lin died and that, far off in the distance, there was the sound of music. For all we know, she may have been an immortal.
You're imagining things!
But there was something strange about that evening, and it didn't sound like any mortal music. Perhaps you're right.
I can't live on like this! All my girl cousins and sisters are leaving one by one. Cousin Lin has become an immortal. First Sister's dead -- but I don't miss her so much, as we weren't always together. Second Sister had married a scoundrel. Now Third Sister is going to marry far from home, so we'll never meet again! Where Xiangyun will be going I don't know. And Baoqin is engaged to be married too. Why shouldn't one of them at least stay here? Why leave me all alone?
It's no use trying to persuade him,
Let me ask him a few questions.
Do you expect all these girls to keep you company here to the end of your life, and never to get married? You may have something else in mind for some of them, but how about your own sisters? Never mind whether they leave to marry far away or not; once your father's made the decision, what can you do? Are you the only one in the world who is fond of his cousins and sisters? If everyone were like you, I wouldn't be able to keep you company either. People study to increase their understanding; how is it then that, with you, the more you study the more muddled you get? You talk as if Xiren and I should both go away, so that you can invite all your sisters and cousins here to stay with you.
I understand,
But why part so soon? Why not wait till I've turned to ashes?
I know, I know!
But my mind's in a ferment.
Why not?
In a few days when his mind's clearer they should have a good talk. After all, his third sister's very sensible, not one of those who just make a pretence of shrewdness. She's bound to give him good advice, so that he doesn't behave like this again.
My, it's cold!
Run back and fetch me that sleeveless ermine jacket. I can't stand this,
I'll be waiting for you in Miss Tanchun's place.
Who's there?
Aunty, don't you recognize me?
Aunty,
Aunty, you used to be so fond of me, how is it that now you've forgotten me completely?
Mercy!
You're dead -- how did you get here?
What have you been doing that kept you so long?
Hurry up and help me into that jacket.
I've just been there and they're all asleep,
Let's go back.
I heard you tossing and turning during the night. Let me massage you now so that you can have a good nap.
Nanny Li, what are you doing? If baby cries, you should pat her. What a glutton for sleep you are!
Die and be done with it, you little wretch!
Why don't you sleep? Is your mother dead that you're wailing like this in the middle of the night?
This is the limit!
Listen to the way she's taking it out on the child! Go and wham that black-hearted bitch, and bring Qiaojie in here.
Don't be angry, madam,
She wouldn't dare. I expect she bumped into her by accident. If I were to give her a few whacks, they'd start accusing us behind our backs of beating people at midnight.
Look what happens while I'm still alive and kicking. If I die tomorrow what will become of this imp?
What a way to talk, madam!
First thing in the morning too.
You don't understand.
I know I shan't last very long. Though I've lived only twenty-five years, I've seen and tasted things not given to others to see or taste, and had the best of food and clothing as well as of all the good things in this world. I've vented my spite fully too, and done enough others down. So if I'm a bit short on 'longevity' what does it matter?
Don't put on that soft-hearted act,
Once I'm dead, the two of you will be only too pleased. You can live in peace and harmony, without me as a thorn in your side. All I ask of you, come what may, is to take good care of my child.
Don't be such a fool,
I'm not dying yet a while. Why start mourning so early? Are you trying to hasten my death with your wailing?
It's the way you talk, madam, that upset me,
Are they still not up?
Not yet,
Fine!
Not up at this hour, just to make things more difficult for me!
Why are you back so soon?
Don't you want me back?
Want me to die outside?
Why talk like that?
You don't usually come back so quickly, that's why I asked. You've no call to lose your temper.
Since I didn't find him, why shouldn't I come straight back?
If you didn't find him, you'll just have to be patient and go earlier tomorrow; then he'll be in.
Why should I run errands for other people?
I've plenty of work of my own here, with no one lifting a finger to help; yet for no reason at all I've had to run right and left for other people. Why the hell should I? The ones in hot water are taking it easy at home, not giving a -damn; and I hear they're laying on feasts and operas to celebrate some birthday with gonging and drumming! Why should I run these pointless errands for them?
Why get so worked up?
Ask whom?
Whom? Your brother!
Is he the one you've been talking about?
Of course. Who else?
What business is it that he wants you to see to for him?
Are you still in the dark?
This is really very strange! I haven't heard a word.
How could you hear? Even the mistress and Aunt Xue haven't heard. Because I didn't want to worry them, and because you're always complaining of bad health, I hushed the business up outside and didn't let the family know either. The mere mention of this really makes me livid! If you hadn't asked me today, I couldn't very well have told you. You may think that brother of yours a gentleman; but do you know what people outside call him?
What do they call him?
It's not the Wang Ren you think, but the Wang Ren meaning that he's lost all sense of decency and propriety.
What backbiters have been slandering him like that?
It isn't slander. I may as well tell you now, because you ought to know what your fine brother's like. It's your second uncle's birthday he's celebrating - did you know that?
Oh! But tell me -isn't his birthday in the winter? I remember it was Baoyu who went every year. When the master was promoted, second uncle sent an opera troupe to perform here, and I told the family in confidence, 'Second uncle's very tight-fisted, not like our elder uncle. The two families keep bickering over money. When our elder uncle died, didn't his younger brother try to grab his property?' That's why I advised them, when his birthday came round, to pay back the opera so that we wouldn't be beholden to him. But what's the idea, celebrating his birthday in advance this year?
You're still in the dark,
Do you know why I got up so early? The censors have investigated the business by the coast and discovered a deficit during your elder uncle's term of office. As he's dead, his younger brother Wang Zisheng and his nephew Wang Ren have to make it good. In desperation, the two of them come to enlist my help; and because they looked scared stiff, and because they're related to you and our mistress, I agreed. I wanted to get Old Qiu who's in charge of the inner court to fix it up by transferring the deficit to some earlier or later account. Unfortunately I got there too late, after he'd gone to the Palace. So I went to all that trouble for nothing. But your brother's still ordering operas and giving feasts. Isn't that maddening?
Whatever he's like, he's your brother-in-law,
Besides, both the elder uncle who's dead and the second uncle who's alive should be grateful for what you're doing. It goes without saying that as this is our Wang family business, I must beg you humbly to help; otherwise other people will get blamed on my account and curse me behind my back.
You don't have to take on like that,
It's your brother who'5 so disgusting. I didn't blame you. When I was out and you were poorly, these maids were still sleeping even after I was up -- since when has that been the rule in our family? You let it go, to show how kindhearted you are. When I say a word against someone, you get up. If I find fault with them tomorrow, will you take all the blame on yourself? This is so pointless!
It's high time for me to get up now,
If that's how you feel, I'll be grateful if you'll fix things up for them. Not only for my sake either. When the mistress hears about it, she'll be pleased too.
All right. I know. You don't have to teach me that.
Why get up so early, madam?
Don't you have a fixed time for getting up every day? Master Lian's in a bad temper over something and taking it out on u~ That's just too bad!
Besides, you can't pin this on her. If we get up late, you've a right to be angry with us -- after all, we're only slaves. But madam's ruined her health by wearing herself out. Why treat her so unkindly?
All right, all right!
She's quite enough for me to cope with, without your taking her side. Anyway I'm not wanted here: the sooner I die the better off you'll be.
Don't talk like that,
Who knows what will happen? I may die before you. The earlier I do, the sooner I'll have some peace.
The mistress wants to know whether you're going to call on your uncle, madam. If you are, she'd like you to take Madam Bao along.
Tell Her Ladyship I still have one or two things to attend to, so I can't go today,
Besides, it isn't an important occasion. If Madam Bao wants to go, she can go by herself.
Why didn't you announce Madam Lian?
As soon as she came in, she signed to us to keep quiet,
Why are you still here? You're grown up now, yet you still behave like a child. Do you have to stick around watching her doing her hair? Together all day long, don't you see enough of each other? Aren't you afraid the maids will make fun of you?
Never mind us, sister,
Hurry up and get dressed.
You go on ahead,
Who ever heard of gentlemen waiting to go with the ladies?
I just feel these clothes I'm wearing aren't very good, not up to that peacock-feather cape the old lady gave me that year.
Why don't you wear it then?
You don't realize, madam, that he wouldn't wear it even if the weather was cold.
Why not?
Because our young master's behaviour is really fantastic. That year the old lady gave him this cape to wear on your second uncle's birthday, but that very same day he burnt it. My mother was very ill, so I was away; but Sister Qingwen was still here at the time. Though she was unwell, I heard she sat up all night mending it for him, so that the next day the old lady didn't notice the burn. One cold day last year when he was going to school, I told Beiming to take that cape for him, but the sight of it reminded him of Qingwen and he said he'd never wear it again. He told me to keep it for him all his life....
Speaking of Qingwen,
That reminds me: I noticed one day that Wuer, the daughter of Mrs. Liu in the kitchen, was the image of Qingwen, and I decided to take her on. When I asked her mother she was only too willing. Then it occurred to me that since Hongyu had left Baoyu service for mine, I ought to give him Wuer in exchange; but Pinger told me the mistress had given orders that no girl looking like Qingwen was to work in Baoyu's place. So I dropped the idea. However, now that he's married what does it matter? I'd better tell her to come -- that is, if Baoyu would like it. If he misses Qingwen, he can look at this Wuer instead.
Of course he would like it. He wanted to get her here long ago, only the mistress was so strongly against it.
In that case I'll send her over tomorrow,
I can square it with the mistress.
Go along then,
But don't drink too much, and come home early. You're only just over your illness.
All right,
Off you go now.
Master Bao has sent Beiming back with a message for Madam Bao.
Has he forgotten something again?
Why send his page back?
I told one of the girls to ask Beiming,
He said, 'Master Bao forgot to tell Madam Bao this, so he sent me back with the message: If she's going, she'd better go soon; if not, she mustn't stand too long in a draught.
You silly creature!
Bursting in so wildly just to tell us this!
Master Bao insisted that I must dismount and bring back this message. If he found out I hadn't delivered it, he'd have sworn at me. Now I've been sworn at all the same just for doing as I was told!
Off you go then,
That'll stop him from worrying about you.
These days we've been having sacrifices in our temple,
Last month evil spirits appeared in the Wang mansion, contaminating it,
One night Madam Wang saw the ghost of her dead husband; so yesterday she came to our temple saying that she wanted to offer incense to the Flower-Scattering Saint and to have sacrifices made for forty-nine days to ensure the family peace, so that the dead may ascend to Heaven and the living enjoy good fortune. This is what kept me from coming to pay my respects before.
Who is this Flower-Scattering Saint? How can he ward off evil and exorcise devils?
A thousand years later the saint ascended to Heaven. But even now on the mountain you can see the place where he expounded the canons, scattering flowers. All prayers to him are granted, and he often manifests his divinity by saving those in distress. That is why this temple was built and offerings are made to his image.
What proof have you of this?
You're cavilling again, madam! What proof is needed? If this were false it could only fool one or two people. How could so many people with good sense have been fooled from old times till now? Just think, madam, the reason why Buddhist sacrifices have been made throughout the centuries is because they have proved efficacious in safeguarding the country and enriching the people -- that's why men believe in them.
In that case, I'll go tomorrow and try. Do you have divination lots in your temple? I'd like to draw one. If it solves my problem, I shall become a believer!
Our lots are infallible,
You'll know that when you draw one tomorrow, madam.
Better wait till the day after that - the first of the month,
Number 33. Most auspicious.
Was there another Wang Xifeng in olden times?
Why, madam, with your broad knowledge of past and present, haven't you heard the story of how Wang Xifeng of the Han Dynasty found an official post?
The other year, we wouldn't let that story-teller, Mrs. Li, tell this story because that was your name, madam.
That's right,
I had forgotten.
Congratulations, madam! What a coincidence! You have been here since childhood, never going back to Nanjing. Now that His Lordship has a provincial post he may send for his family, which will give you a chance to return in splendour' as the oracle says.
The master may really have such a plan!
I was explaining an oracle for Cousin Xifeng,
Everyone declares it's a good omen,
But I think 'returns home in splendour may mean something else. Well, time will show.
You're too sceptical, trying to twist the saint's meaning,
Everybody has always known that this is a good omen. Why read some other meaning into it? How else would you explain it anyway?
Tanchun is going to be married,
These days I'm constantly ailing, and Xifeng is unwell three days out of five. As you have good sense you ought to take things in hand, not holding back for fear of giving offence. In future you'll be responsible for this whole household.
Yes, madam.
Another thing,
Your sister-in-law Xifeng brought Mrs. Liu's daughter here yesterday and said, as you're one maid short, the girl's to join your staff.
Pinger brought her over just now, saying that both you and Xifeng had agreed to it, madam.
Yes, Xifeng proposed it to me and I raised no objection -- I could hardly turn her down. Only, judging by the look in that girl's eyes, she's not the kind to keep quiet. I dismissed some of Baoyu's maids before because they were such vixens; but of course you know that -- that was why you moved out of the Garden. Now with you here things are different. I'm telling you just so that you'll be on the look-out. The only reliable girl in your place is Xiren.
Find out what other good doctors there are outside and ask some of them here to see her,
This doctor we had is the best-known,
Maybe my mother's illness is one that medicine can't cure.
Nonsense! Stop giving her medicine, just leaving her to get over it herself?
That's not what I meant, sir. But the other day, when she went to the West Mansion, she came back through the Garden and as soon as she got home she had this fever, so something there may have put a jinx on her. There's a very good diviner here from the south, a man called Mao Banxian. Why not ask him here to consult him? If it seems that's what happened, we'll follow his advice. If it doesn't work, we can look for other good doctors.
You sent for me, sir,
What do you want me to prognosticate?
In that case,
bring me clean water to wash my hands and set incense on the table. I'll see what I can do.
Now here is a devout gentleman named Jia whose mother is ill. We piously beseech the four great sages Fu Xi, King Wen, the Duke of Zhou and Confucius to hear our supplication, that manifestations may appear for the faithful and bad or good fortune be truthfully predicted. First vouchsafe the three inner signs.
A true manifestation: the first toss shows three obverses.
Now the inner signs have been revealed; we vouchsafe the three outer signs to make up the answer.
Please sit down while I study this carefully,
But I fear from the ghost in the parents' sign that your father's health may be affected too. The manifestations also show serious contradictions and destruction, and there will be trouble when water is in the ascendant and earth is weak.
This is brilliantly divined, sir,
But what caused my mother's illness?
The signs indicate fire counteracted by water, therefore it must be a case of a cold congestion combined with a hot humour. Even divination by milfoil would be unable to determine this more clearly -- for that you would need to resort to the method of the Duodecimal Cycle.
Are you expert in that too, sir?
I know something about it.
This is called the 'dissolution of animal spirits,
This sign indicates the loss of animal spirits attended by deaths, sicknesses and alarms. Since, according to the portent, tigers appear at dusk, she must have been taken ill in the evening. It also says, 'All who cast this lot must have a tiger spirit lurking in an old house to cause trouble. It may take form and utter sounds.' You asked to have your parents' fortunes told, sir. This coincides with the saying that a tiger appearing in the daytime harries men, seen at night it harries women. This is very ominous!
No doubt, sir,
But this doesn't altogether accord with that other prediction. Just how serious is it?
Don't panic. Let me study it carefully again.
Good!
There is hope. I have worked out that a noble spirit will come to the rescue. This sign is known as the 'dissolution of the sentient soul with the return of the spiritual soul.' Anxiety will be followed by joy. All will be well, but you must take precautions.
Mother caught this illness in the old house at dusk, when she met a white tiger spirit.
You told me that the other day your mother came back through the Garden; she must have run into it there. Remember how your aunt Xifeng fell ill after going to the Garden? Though she didn't see anything herself, later on all the maids and nurses with her declared they had seen a furry creature on a rock with eyes as big as lanterns, and able to speak. It drove her back, making her fall ill from fright.
Yes, I remember,
I also heard from Uncle Bao's page Mingyan that Qingwen had become the Spirit of the Hibiscus in the Garden, and that after Miss Lin died music sounded high above, so she must have been put in charge of some flowers there too. What a dreadful thing -- all those monsters in the Garden! Before, with all those people coming and going and the place so full of life, it didn't matter. But now it's very lonely, and when my mother went there she may have trodden on some flowers or had some jinx put on her. So it seems the divination was correct.
Did he say there was any danger?
What do you mean?
If that fortune-teller was right, sir, I'm afraid you'll be out of sorts too.
The mistress wants to get up and go over to the Garden. Her maids can't stop her!
The one in red's calling me! The one in green's hurrying me!
How could there be monsters in such a fine garden?
I saw a monster!
Yellow in the face with a red beard, dressed in green. It flew into a cave behind the trees.
Did the rest of you see it?
Yes, we did, sir. But as you were ahead, we didn't like to alarm you. So we kept quiet about it. We slaves can control ourselves.
What an impressive order!
This commotion to summon heavenly generals here should frighten any number of monsters away.
What a great to-do!
We expected them to show us the monsters they'd caught, to let us see what they were really like after all that hunting round. Heaven knows whether they caught anything or not!
You fools!
Monsters take shape or vanish into thin air just as they please. With all the heavenly generals here, how dare they show themselves? Now that the evil has been exorcised, they'll have to stop making trouble -- such is the power of the sacred doctrine.
I don't know what happened earlier on, but I went to the Garden that day with Lord She, and it was a big pheasant that flew past -- that was plain as daylight. But Shuaner took fright, thought he'd seen an apparition and described it to the life! We all backed him up by fibbing, so Lord She took his story seriously. That's why we had this grand show to watch today!
Today, in Uncle Wang's place, I heard that Second Uncle has been impeached by the governor,
He's accused of not keeping a check on his subordinates and of levying too much grain. The court has been petitioned to dismiss him.
 replied Jia She, very shocked. 
This news is reliable. We were just discussing it in the ministry when a magistrate from Jiangxi, newly summoned to court, arrived. He has a high opinion of Second Uncle. Says he's a good official but doesn't know how to handle subordinates, so those servants of his made trouble outside, bullying and cheating people and spoiling his reputation. The governor, knowing this all along, also thinks well of Second Uncle. It's puzzling that he should have impeached him now. Maybe things were getting so out of hand he was afraid there might be some big scandal and therefore accused him of negligence to get him off more lightly.
Go and tell your aunt about this, but don't let the old lady know.
Is this news reliable?
If so, the master will be pleased and our minds will be set at rest too. Those provincial posts are too risky. If he hadn't been recalled like this, those scoundrels might have been the death of him!
How did you know that, madam?
Since your Second Uncle went to this provincial post, instead of sending home a single cent he's spent a whole lot of the family's money. And look at those men who went with him: They hadn't been gone long before their wives started dolling themselves up with gold and silver trinkets. Obviously they've been raking in money outside without the master knowing. And he's let them get away with such goings-on. If there'd been a scandal, not only would he be dismissed -- our ancestors might even be deprived of their titles!
You're quite right, madam. When I first heard he'd been impeached I had the fright of my life, but after I got the facts clear I felt relieved. I hope he'll pass some years quietly as an official in the capital, keeping his good reputation as long as he lives. Even if the old lady hears this she needn't worry, provided you reassure her.
I know what to say. But go and see what more you can find out.
Our mistress has sent me, madam, to tell you that another dreadful thing has happened in our family!
What is it?
Something too awful for words!
You silly creature!
If it's so serious, tell me properly.
Master Ke is away, we've no man in the house; so how are we to cope? She wants you, madam, to send some gentlemen over to help us out.
But what do you want them for?
Madam Pan is dead!
Pah! Good riddance to bad rubbish! Why get so worked up?
It wasn't a natural death - there's been foul play. Please, madam, send someone over at once to cope!
What a fool this old woman is! You'd better go and see what's happened, Lian. Pay no attention to that stupid creature.
pay no attention.
Well, whom is she sending?
It's no use!
When you're in a fix, the kindest of kin will do nothing. Her Ladyship not only refuses to help us, she swore I was a fool!
If she won't help,
What did the young mistress say?
If Her Ladyship won't lift a finger, how can her daughter-in-law do anything? I didn't go to tell her.
Her Ladyship isn't one of our family, but how can the daughter whom I brought up ignore me?
Of course!
Well then, I'll go again.
My aunt has heard that Pan's wife is dead, but she couldn't get any sense out of your servant and so she's very worried. She's sent me to find out what's happened and told me to help. What can I do for you, aunt?
I'm sorry to put you out, Master Lian. I know how good my sister is to me, but this old creature can't give a message clearly and nearly held matters up. Please take a seat and I'll tell you all about it. The thing is - she didn't die a natural death.
Did she kill herself in a pique because of Pan's trouble?
Does the Xia family know about it?
No. We must clear up the business before we tell them.
I think we'll have to go through official channels to get the matter settled. Naturally it's Baochan whom we suspect, but other people will ask what reason she had to poison her own mistress. To them, Xiangling would seem more likely to do it.
If we have Xiangling bound, it will look as if we too believe she was the poisoner. You say the soup was prepared by Baochan, mother. In that case, you should tie her up and question her, at the same time sending to tell the Xia family and to report this to the authorities.
Baochai is quite right,
When we have reported this, I must also go and ask some men in the Board of Punishments to help see to things at the inquest and interrogation. But I think it may make things awkward if we tie up Baochan and set Xiangling loose.
I didn't want to tie up Xiangling,
But I was afraid that, ill as she is, this false accusation might make her so desperate she'd try to kill herself -- then we'd have another death on our hands. That's why I decided to have her tied up and put in Baochan's charge.
Still, this is strengthening Baochan's case,
They should either both be set free or both bound up, as the three of them were together. Well, just get somebody to comfort Xiangling.
beggars can't be choosers.
My daughter was doing all right there!
Why should she poison herself?
darling daughter,
What good treatment did my daughter ever get in your family?
Her husband beat and cursed her all the time; then you wouldn't let the young couple stay together. You plotted to have my son-in-law imprisoned, so that she'd never set eyes on him again. Mother and daughter, you enjoy yourselves with your fine relatives' backing, but you still couldn't bear the sight of Jingui and got someone to poison her, then accused her of killing herself! Why should she take poison?
Madam! First go and look at your daughter and question Baochan, before making such allegations.
Are you Mrs. Xia, madam?
The young mistress has poisoned herself. It wasn't Madam Xue's doing. How can you abuse her like this?
And who may you be?
She is one of the household of our Jia relatives.
We all know you have powerful relatives,
That's why you can keep my son-in-law in jail. But does that mean that my child's death can go unavenged?
Just how did you murder my daughter anyway? Show me!
Just go and see for yourself. Stop tugging at other people.
Are you banking on your masters' power to beat up my mother?
We know how powerful your Rong Mansion is!
Now Our girl has been killed, you may as well kill us too!
Ten thousand men are no match for one desperado.
Stop this brawling and talk reasonably,
This place must be straightened up at once. Officers from the Board of Punishments are corning to hold an inquest.
This woman came here not to look at her daughter but to abuse Madam Xue. We were remonstrating with her when a wild man burst in to raise pandemonium. In the presence of ladies too -- it was simply outrageous!
We needn't argue with them now,
Later we can have him beaten and interrogated. Men should keep to themselves and not intrude on ladies. His mother could surely have seen her daughter by herself. Why should he rush in if not to loot the place?
What a way to behave, Mrs. Xia!
Since you came, you should have asked the facts of the matter. Either your daughter committed suicide, or Baochan poisoned her. Why try to blackmail people before finding out the facts and seeing the corpse? Would Madam Xue let her daughter-in-law die and do nothing about it? We've tied Baochan up. Because your daughter was always making trouble, she asked Xiangling to keep her company and they slept in the same room. That's why both she and Baochan are under guard there. We were waiting for you to come and attend the inquest, at which we'll find out just what happened.
Our young lady was kind to xiangling, getting her to move in with her, yet Xiangling seized this chance to poison her!
Nonsense!
She died after drinking that soup yesterday. Weren't you the one who prepared it?
Yes, I was. But after bringing it in I went out to see to something else. Then Xiangling must have put some poison in it.
It looks as if she was poisoned by arsenic. We certainly have none here. No matter whether it was Xiangling or Baochan, someone must have bought it for her. After investigation the authorities are sure to find out. The culprit can't get away. Now let's lay her out properly ready for the inquest.
There's the evidence all right!
Where have all her trinkets gone to?
Who took my sister-in-law's things?
Baochan must answer for this.
How should she know?
Don't say that, madam,
I know Baochan was with her all the time. Of course she must know.
My mistress always took something each time she went home. How could I stop her?
A fine mother you are!
Squeezing your daughter till she had nothing left, then making her kill herself so that you could blackmail us! Very well, we'll report this at the inquest.
You bitch!
Stop blabbing! When did my daughter ever take things home?
The things don't matter,
What's important is to find out who murdered her.
Once we've found those things, we shall know who murdered her,
Hurry up and ask Cousin Lian to check up on the arsenic her son bought, then report it to the authorities.
This Baochan must have lost her mind, talking such rubbish,
My daughter never bought any arsenic. If Baochan says this, she must have poisoned her!
Other people may accuse me falsely, but how can you? Many's the time I heard you tell your daughter not to take things lying down but to raise a rumpus and ruin their family, then move out bag and baggage and marry a better man. Did you tell her that or not?
When one of your own servants bears witness against you, how can you deny it?
I never treated you badly! Do you want to be the death of me talking that way? When the officers come, I'll tell them you were the one who poisoned my daughter!
Madam,
please let Xiangling go. We shouldn't wrong innocent people. I know what to say when I'm interrogated.
An easygoing girl like you, why get yourself involved needlessly?
If you know something, speak out and be done with it so that we can get this straight.
This is even greater nonsense!
If she wanted to poison Xiangling, why should she get poisoned herself?
Xiangling, did you drink that soup yesterday?
A few days ago I was too ill even to raise my head,
When the mistress told me to drink I dared not refuse; but before I could struggle up the soup was spilt and she had to clean up the mess -- I felt very bad about it. Yesterday, again, she told me to drink some soup. I didn't want to, but I had to. Before I could start on it, though, I came over dizzy and to my relief Sister Baochan took the bowl away. I was dozing off when the mistress drank her own soup and told me to try mine, so I forced myself to take a couple of sips....
There's no need to argue. Get everything cleared up quickly. The officers from the Board of Punishments are coming.
It's all the fault of my dead daughter,
She brought this on herself. If we let them hold an inquest, it will reflect badly on your family too. Do hush the business up, madam!
That's impossible,
We've already reported it; how can it be hushed up?
The only way to hush the matter up is for Mrs. Xia herself to call off the inquest, in which case we shall say no more about it.
What brings you here, Your Honour?
I have come from the capital on a tour of inspection, and happened to pass this way. Seeing you meditating so tranquilly, I felt sure you must have a profound understanding of the Way and would therefore like to make so bold as to ask for your instructions.
Our coming and our going -- each has its predestined place,
Where have you been practising virtue, venerable master? And why are you staying here? What is the name of this temple? How many inmates has it? Are there not holy mountains where you could cultivate Truth? Or if you want to do virtuous deeds, why not choose somewhere more accessible?
A gourd is shelter enough for me, I need no holy mountains. The name of this temple has long been lost, but the broken tablet remains; and since the shadow follows the form, why should I ask for alms to have the temple repaired? 'The jade in the box hopes to fetch a good price; the pin in the casket longs to soar on high' -- that doesn't apply to me.
gourd,
 and 
Aren't you old Mr. Zhen, sir?
Why talk about zhen (true) and jia (false)? They are the same.
Since you generously helped me to go to the capital, I was lucky enough to pass the examination and was assigned to your honourable district. Only then did I learn that you, venerable sir, had left the dusty world and become an immortal. Although I longed to trace you, I feared that as a mundane, vulgar official I would never see your saintly countenance again. I am overjoyed at this encounter here! I beg you, venerable saint, to instruct the ignorant. If you do not spurn me, my house in the capital is near at hand and I would count it an honour to entertain you there so that I can hear your instructions every day.
I know of nothing in this world but my hassock. What Your Honour just said completely passes this poor priest's understanding.
If he isn't Zhen Shiyin how is it that he looks and talks just like him? We haven't met for nineteen years, yet he appears unchanged. It must be because he has achieved immortality that he's unwilling to disclose his past. But now that I have found my benefactor, I can't let slip this opportunity. Evidently he's not to be tempted by wealth or rank, much less by mention of his wife and daughter.
How can I bear it, saintly teacher,
if you draw a veil over your past?
It is growing dark, sir, high time to cross the ford.
Pray lose no time in crossing, Your Honour. We shall meet again. If you delay, a storm may spring up. If you really wish to see me, I shall wait for you some other day at he ford.
Your Honour!
That temple you just visited is on fire!
How extraordinary!
I've barely left the place, How could this blaze have started? I hope this hasn't done for Zhen Shiyin!
Did you see that old Taoist leave the temple?
said the man. 
You stay here till the fire burns out,
Then go in to see whether the old priest was trapped or not, and come back to report to me.
This drunkard didn't get out of the way but came charging at us, he reported. 
I am in charge of this district,
All citizens here come under my jurisdiction. When you saw your prefect coming, you were too drunk to make way yet had the nerve to make false accusations!
 retorted the fellow. 
Lawless scoundrel!
Ask him his name.
I am Ni Er the Drunken Diamond.
Have this wretch beaten,
We'll soon see whether he's hard as a diamond!
So that's the rough diamond you are! I won't have you beaten now but taken to the yamen for a thorough interrogation.
Ni Er, in his cups, counts on his strength to throw his weight about; but now he's fallen into Prefect Ji a's clutches he's not likely to get off lightly!
Don't worry, 
Prefect Jia is connected with the Rong Mansion, and a certain Second Master Jia of that family is one of your father's friends. If you and your mother ask him to put in a word, your father will be let off.
Yes, I've often heard father say that Mr. Jia Yun next door is his friend, so why not get him to help?
We've come to beg you to put in a word, Second Master, to get him set free,
That's easy,
As soon as I mention this to the West Mansion he'll be released. This Mr. Jia Yucun owes his high post to the help of the Rong Mansion, so once they send him a message the thing will be settled.
The Second Master is out,
We'll tell him when he comes back that you called.
You always said that not a single yamen, no matter which, dared disobey your family, 
Now this prefect is one of your clan, and it's not a big favour to ask. If you can't even do this, you're one of the Jias in vain!
Yesterday I was too busy to send a message, but today I'll tell them and he'll be released,
You've nothing to worry about!
I wangled a treeplanting job from her that year because Ni Er lent me money and I sent in that gift of aromatics. Now that I've no money for gifts she won't let me in. It's not as if she's a decent sort. She simply loans out the family's funds left by our ancestors at exorbitant interest, but won't let us poor relations have even one ounce of silver! Can they count on remaining rich all their lives? Why, their name stinks outside! I'm not one to blab -- if I were, they would be involved in plenty of murder cases!
The West Mansion sent a message but Prefect Jia has ignored it. You had better get Leng Zixing, who's related to their steward Zhou Rui, to put in a word.
If a gentleman like you failed, how could a servant succeed?
You don't understand,
Nowadays servants have much more say than their masters.
Sorry to have troubled you for nothing these days,
We shall thank you again when that man of mine comes out.
The bastard, the ungrateful beast!
When he was starving and wanted to worm his way into that house to wangle a job, I was the one who helped him. Now when I land in trouble he leaves me in the lurch. Fine! If Ni Er raises a row, both the Jia Mansions will be dragged through the mud!
Ai! You're drunk again, talking so wildly, 
Weren't you beaten the other day for making a drunken scene? Before you've got over it, here you are starting again!
As this puppy Jia Yun has let me down for all I was so good to him, my friends and I can spread word that their family's ridden roughshod over people, practised usury and abducted other men's wives. When the scandal spreads and reaches the censor's ears they'll catch it! Then they'll get to know Ni Er the Diamond!
Go to bed and sleep it off,
Staying at home, what do you know about what goes on outside? The year before last I met a young fellow called Zhang in a gambling-den, and he told me that his betrothed had been bagged by the Jias. He asked my advice, and I stopped him from making a row. I don't know where he is now, I haven't seen him for the last couple of years. If I knock into him, I'll fix up a plan to do in that young bastard Jia Yun! I won't let him off unless he offers me rich gifts! How dare he refuse to help me?
Why didn't you go back to have a look?
If he got burnt to death, won't we seem too heartless?
He's outside the mundane world now and wouldn't have anything to do with us,
The man Your Honour left at the temple after the fire the other day has come back.
After going back on Your Honour's order, I didn't wait for the fire to burn out but went in through the flames to look for the priest. The fire had burnt the place where he had been sitting and the back wall had collapsed, so I expected to find him dead, but there was no sign of him, although a hassock and gourd there were undamaged. I looked everywhere for his corpse, yet found not a single bone. For fear that you might not believe me, I decided to bring back the hassock and gourd as evidence; but when I touched them they both turned to ashes!
Have you sent in your acknowledgement of culpability?
Yes. After lunch I shall learn the Emperor's will.
I had the fright of my life!
Thank you, gentlemen, for your concern. Luckily nothing serious has happened.
His Majesty wanted to know about the smuggling of firearms in Yunnan,
It was reported that the culprit was a servant of the former Senior Imperial Tutor Jia Hua, which reminded His Majesty of my ancestor's name, and he asked me what it was. At once I kowtowed and replied that it was Jia Daihua. Then the Emperor asked with a smile, 'Wasn't that former Minister of War who was later demoted to be prefect of the capital also called Jia Hua?
What was your reply, sir?
I explained distinctly that the former Senior Imperial Tutor Jia Hua came from Yunnan, the present prefect from Huzhou in Zhejiang. Then His Majesty asked, 'Is that Jia Fan impeached by the prefect of Suzhou one of your family?' Kowtowing again I said, 'Yes, sir.' Then the Emperor demanded angrily, 'How can your family allow your servants to abduct a good citizen's wife?' I dared say nothing. 'What is Jia Fan's relation to you?' was the next question. 'He's a distant kinsman,' I said. The Emperor snorted at that and dismissed me. It was touch-and-go!
Quite a coincidence that,
these two cases one after the other.
That's not so strange,
What's bad is both men being Jias. Our poor clan is such a large one that after all these years we have relatives everywhere. Though no trouble came of it this time, the name Jia will stick in the Emperor's mind -- and that's bad.
Truth will always prevail,
You've nothing to fear.
I would give anything not to be an official, but I dare not retire. Besides, our family has two hereditary titles. This is something that can't be helped.
You are still in the Ministry of Works, sir,
A metropolitan post should be quite safe.
Even so, that's hard to say after two provincial appointments.
 the other officials told him. 
I am seldom at home to check up on them and can't be too easy in my mind about them. Since you've brought this up and we are close friends, please tell me -- have my nephews in the East Mansion been misconducting themselves?
Not really, but a few vice-ministers - some Imperial eunuchs too - are not on very good terms with them. It's nothing to worry about if you just warn them to be more circumspect in future.
I had to leave in too much of a hurry to wait for the Double Ninth Festival,
But though I didn't see her, I heard from the other family that everything went very well. Her father- and mother-in-law send their regards to you, madam. They hope, this winter or next spring, to be transferred to the capital, which would of course be still better. But I hear there is trouble in the coastal regions, so the transfer may be delayed.
Isn't there someone missing?
Since I've just come home I can't make a detailed check-up,
Yes, sir.
You go to bed first,
I want to collect my thoughts a bit. My memory's not what it was, and if I keep forgetting what to say it'll make a bad impression on my father. If you go to sleep first, Xiren can keep me company here.
I've something to ask her,
But as she always looks so angry and cold-shoulders me when she sees me, you must do some explaining for me before she'll come.
I was pleased to hear that you wanted to collect Your thoughts, but what's this you're thinking about? If you've some-thing on your mind, why not ask her tomorrow?
I'm only free this evening. Tomorrow the master may give me some-thing to do and keep me busy. Dear sister, please fetch her quickly!
She won't come unless Madam Bao sends for her.
That's why I want you to go and persuade her.
What should I say?
You understand how I feel and how she feels -- both of us because of Miss Lin. Tell her that I wasn't faithless to her. It was you people who made me look faithless.
I never wanted to marry her, but they tricked me into it - the old lady and others - and that was the death of poor Cousin Lin. But even so, they should have let me see her and clear myself -then she wouldn't have died with such a sense of grievance! You must have heard from Miss Tanchun and the others that, at the last, she reproached me angrily. And Zijuan hates me like poison because of her.
But how can you think me so heartless? Qingwen was only a maid who didn't mean so much to me, yet the truth is that when she died I wrote an elegy for her and sacrificed to her. Miss Lin saw that for herself. Now that Miss Lin is dead, would I treat her worse than Qingwen? But I can't even sacrifice to her. Besides, her spirit is living on; so when she thinks about this won't she blame me still more?
 said Xiren. 
Since my health started improving I've been wanting to write an elegy but somehow I've grown dim-witted. I can sacrifice any old way to other people, but there mustn't be anything the least bit crude about a sacrifice to her. So I want to find out from Zijuan what her mistress was thinking and how she detected it. Before my illness I could have figured it out, but now I can't remember a thing. You told me that Miss Lin was getting better; how did she come to die so suddenly? What did she say when she was well and I didn't go to see her? She didn't call when I was ill, and how did she explain that? And why is it your mistress never lets me touch those things of hers which I managed to get hold of?
She's afraid they might upset you, that's all.
I don't believe it. If Miss Lin felt for me, why did she burn her poems before she died instead of leaving them to me as a memento? I heard tell that music sounded in the sky, so she must have become a goddess or an immortal. I saw her coffin, it's true, but who knows whether she was in it or not?
You're talking more and more nonsensically. How could anyone announce a death simply by displaying an empty coffin?
I didn't mean that!
But when people become immortals, some retain their bodily form, others shed their mortal frame. Good sister, please fetch Zijuan for me!
You'll have to wait till I've explained to her just how you feel. If she's willing to come, all right; if she refuses it may take time to talk her round. But even if she comes, at sight of you she's bound to hold certain things back. It seems to me I'd better question her tomorrow after Madam Bao had gone to see the old lady. That way I may find out more. Then when there's time to spare, I'll tell you about it.
That's all very well, but I'm too impatient to wait!
The young mistress says it's already the fourth watch and she wants the young master to go to bed,
And Sister Xiren must have been enjoying her chat so much that she lost track of the time.
That's right!
It's time to go to bed. We can talk again tomorrow.
Mind you don't forget tomorrow!
All right.
You two are up to some tricks again,
Why not ask the mistress to let you sleep with Xiren, then you can talk all night for all we care.
There's no need for that.
You bitch, talking such rot!
Tomorrow I'll pinch your lips.
Look at all the trouble you've caused. Sitting up so late talking but without so much as a word about this.
Commissioner Zhao of the Imperial Guards and several of his officers are here to see you, sir,
When I asked for their cards the commissioner said, 'No need: we are old friends.' He dismounted from his carriage and came straight in. Please make haste to meet them, sir, with the young gentlemen.
Better go at once, uncle, before they all come in.
Commissioner Zhao has entered the inner gate.
Since His Highness has arrived, you gentlemen can take runners to guard the front and back gates.
We wouldn't presume to intrude without special reason, 
We have come to announce an Imperial decree to Lord She. You have many feasters here, which is somewhat inopportune, so T'll ask your relatives and friends to disperse, leaving only your own household to hear the decree.
Your Highness is very gracious, but the prince officiating at the East Mansion takes his duties so seriously that the gates are doubtless already sealed up.
These gentlemen are free to go,
Please read the decree, Your Highness, then we can start the search.
His Majesty has ordered me to bring Zhao Quan of the Imperiai Guards to search Jia She's property.
Hear the Imperiai decree: Jia She has intrigued with provincial officiais and abused his power to molest the weak, showing himself unworthy of Our favour and sullying his ancestors' good name. His hereditary rank is hereby abolished.
Arrest Jia She! Keep guard over the others.
We hear that Lord She and Lord Zheng keep separate accounts, and according to the decree we are to search the former's property. The rest is to be sealed up pending further orders.
May it please Your Highness,
Jia She and Jia Zheng have not divided the family property, and we hear that Jia Zheng has put his nephew Jia Lian in charge of his household affairs. We shall therefore have to search the whole premises.
I must go in person with my officers to search the houses of Jia She and Jia Lian.
There is no hurry,
Send word first so that the ladies inside may withdraw before you start to search.
No disorder now!
I shall come in person to supervise the search!
None of those who came with me are to move. Wait here. Later we shall check up on the property and make an inventory.
In the inner apartments we have found some clothes from the Palace and other forbidden things which we haven't presumed to touch. I have come, Your Highness, to ask for your orders.
In Jia Lian's house we have found two cases of title-deeds and one of promissory notes  all at illegally exorbitant rates of interest.
Good!
The guards at the gate say that His Majesty has sent the Prince of Beijing to proclaim another decree and they ask the commissioner to receive him.
I was out of luck having that crabbed prince foisted on me. Now, with this other one here, I should be able to crack down on them hard!
Here is a decree. Let Zhao Quan, Commissioner of the Imperial Guards, pay heed.
The commissioner's sole task is to arrest Jia She for trial. The Prince of Xiping will deterrnine what other measures to take according to the earlier decree.
I was just losing patience with Old Zhao. If you hadn't brought that decree in the nick of time, sir, they'd have been really hard hit here.
When I heard at court that Your Highness had been sent to search the Jia Mansions I was relieved, knowing you would let them off more lightly, 
I never thought Old Zhao was such a scoundrel. But where are Jia Zheng and Baoyu now? And how much damage has been done inside?
Jia Zheng and the rest are under guard in the servants' quarters, and the whole place has been turned upside down.
When Old Zhao was here just now, Your Lordship, his runners reported finding various articles for Imperial use and some promissory notes for usurious loans  this we cannot cover up. Regarding those forbidden articles, as they were for Her Imperial Highness' use it will do no harm to report them. But we must find some way to explain those IOU's. Now I want you, sir, to take the officers and honestly hand over to them all your brother's property, to end the matter. Don't on any account conceal anything, or you will be asking for trouble.
I would never dare,
But we never divided up our ancestral estate, simply considering the things in our two houses as our own property.
Very well,
Just hand over everything in Lord She's house.
I don't think Baoyu's afraid of meeting them, but he knows there are plenty of people there to entertain the guests, so he's waiting on us here instead. If it occurs to the master that they need more people there to look after the guests, you can trot out Baoyu, madam. How about that?
This minx Xifeng!
She still has the gift of the gab for all she's so ill!
We're ruined!
The women inside must make themselves scarce! The prince is coming!
It's all right now!
Thank goodness the prince has come to our rescue!
Among the property confiscated are some 10U's which are definitely usurious. Whose are they? Your Lordship must tell the truth.
I am guilty of never having managed the household affairs and that is the truth,
I know nothing about such transactions. Your Highnesses will have to ask my nephew Jia Lian.
Since those documents were found in my humble house, how can I deny knowledge of them? I only beg Your Highnesses to be lenient to my uncle who knew nothing about this.
As your father has already been found guilty, your cases can be dealt with together. You did right to admit this. Very well then, let a guard be kept over ha Lian; the rest of the household can return to their different quarters. Lord Zheng, you must wait prudently for a further decree. We shall go now to report to His Majesty, leaving officers and runners here to keep watch.
Please set your minds at rest.
Grandfather, won't you go in to see the old lady first? Then we can send for news of the East Mansion.
The master has come back safely,
Don't worry any more, madam.
My son, I never thought to see you again!
Set your heart at rest, madam,
It is a serious matter, but His Gracious Majesty and the two princes have shown us the kindest consideration. The Elder Master has been taken into custody for the time being; but once the matter is cleared up the Emperor will show more clemency. And our property is not being confiscated.
Don't cry, madam,
We carried her back just now in a dead faint, but presently she came to and cried a little. Now she is quieter. Please calm down, madam. How is the old lady now?
Which house do you belong to anyway?
As you've come butting in here, we'll put you down on our list and chain you up to hand over to the officers inside.
Why did you come here?
We're done for, done for!
To think that we should be reduced to this!
What a time I had getting in here!
Where is uncle?
Thank Heaven you've come!
How did you gain admittance?
I can't very well send messages to other relatives and friends now that we're under fire,
But you can deliver messages for me.
It never occurred to me that you'd have trouble here, sir; but I've heard something about the East Mansion's business.
What exactly are the charges against them?
Today I went to the yamen to find out what Cousin Pan's sentence is, and I heard that two censors have accused Cousin Zhen of corrupting young nobles by getting them to gamble   that isn't so serious. The more serious charge is of abducting the wife of an honest citizen, who Was forced to kill herself rather than submit. To bring this charge home, the censors got our man Bao Er and a fellow called Zhang as witnesses. Thi5 may involve the Court of Censors too, as that fellow Zhang had brought a suit before.
Terrible! We're done for!
It looks bad,
When I asked at the Board of Punishments, I didn't hear the result of the two princes' report but was told that this morning Censor Li brought another charge against the prefect of Pingan, accusing him of pandering to an official in the capital and oppressing the people to please his superior   there were several serious charges.
Never mind about other people,
What did you hear about us?
That charge against the prefect of Ping an involves us too, sir. The official in the capital referred to by the censor was Lord She, who's accused of tampering with lawsuits. This adds fuel to the flames! All your colleagues are trying hard to keep out of this, so who would send you word? Even those relatives and friends at your feast either went home or are keeping well away until they know the upshot. Some clansmen of yours   confound them! - have been saying openly, 
What a fool my brother is!
It's a scandal, too, the way they've carried on in the East Mansion! For all we know this may be the death of the old lady and Lian's wife! Go and see what more you can find out while I look in on the old lady. If there's any news, the sooner we know it the better.
The old lady's dying!
Your unfilial sons have brought this trouble upon our family, alarrning you, madam. If you will take comfort, we can still handle the situation outside; but if you fall ill our guilt will be even greater!
I'm four score years and more,
Ever since my gidhood when I married your father, thanks to our ancestors I've lived in the lap of luxury and never even heard tell of a nightmare like this. Now, in my old age, seeing you come to grief  it's too bad! I wish I could die and be done with worrying about you!
Good news, sir!
What instructions has His Highness for me?
 he said. 
Because of my official duties, I turned over the supervision of our family affairs to you and your wife,
Of course you could hardly keep a check on your father, but who is responsible for this usury? Such conduct is most unbefitting a family like ours. Now that those notes of yours have been confiscated, the financial loss is of secondary importance, but think of the damage to our reputation!
According to you, you don't know even what is going on in your own apartments, to say nothing about family affairs! Well, I won't cross-examine you now. You've got off lightly yourself, but shouldn't you go to find out about the cases of your father and Cousin Zhen?
My ancestors spared no pains in his sovereign's service, winning fame and two hereditary titles; but now that both our houses have got into trouble these titles have been lost. As far as I can see, none of our sons or nephews amounts to anything. Merciful Heaven! Why should our Jia family be ruined like this? Though His Gracious Majesty has shown extraordinary compassion by restoring my property, how am I   alone   to meet our two households' expenses? Jia Lian's admission just now was even more shocking: it seems that not only is our treasury empty but there are deficits in the accounts, so we've made a mere show of affluence all these years, and I can only blame myself for being such a fool! If my son Zhu were alive he would have been my right hand. Baoyu, though he's grown up, is a useless creature.
My mother is so old yet not for a single day have we, her sons, provided for her out of our own earnings. Instead of that we've made her faint for terror. How can I shirk the blame for all these misdeeds?
I am to blame for this family disaster,
I failed to bring up my sons and nephews well.
I have long known of your brother Lord She's unseemly conduct, and Master Zhen of that mansion was even more profligate. If they are blamed for their malpractices, it is no more than they deserve. Unfortunately, this scandal they've created has involved you as well, sir.
It's not the censors' fault,
We heard that one of your servants connived with some rogues outside to raise a hue and cry against your house. Then for fear there wasn't sufficient evidence, the censors tricked others of your men into talking. I always had the impression that your family treated its servants most generously, so why should such a thing happen?
No slaves are any good,
We're all relatives and friends here and can speak frankly. Even at that post in the provinces, sir, scrupulous as you are yourself, I suspect that those grasping servants of yours damaged your reputation; so you had better watch out. Though your property hasn't been touched, if the Emperor's suspicions are aroused it may be troublesome.
What talk against me have you gentlemen heard?
There's no evidence of this, but it was said that when you served as Grain Commissioner you allowed your subordinates to feather their nests.
I swear to Heaven I never dared to think of such a thing!
But if those slaves of mine fleeced and swindled people, and trouble comes of it, I shall be done for!
It's no use panicking,
You must make a serious checkup of your stewards, and if you find any of them insubordinate you should crack down on them hard.
The Elder Master's son-in-law Young Master Sun has sent word that he is too busy to call in person and so has sent a messenger instead. He says that the Elder Master owed him money and wants you to pay him back, sir.
Very well.
No wonder your kinsman Sun Shaozu is said to be a scoundrel. Now that his father-in-law's house has been raided, instead of coming to help out he loses no time in demanding his money back. This is truly fantastic!
Let's not talk about him,
My brother should never have agreed to that match. My niece has already paid dearly for his ~stake, and now her husband has started dunning me!
Commissioner Zhao of the Imperial Guards insists on pressing the charges made by the censors. I'm afraid things look black for the Elder Master and for Master Zhen.
You must go and beg the princes to intervene, sir,
Otherwise both your families will be ruined.
What's done is done,
We can't get back what we've lost. But the mistress is so ill, you must send for a doctor for her.
Pah!
My own life is still at stake; why should I care about her?
Stop being so dense. Now that things have come to this pass, why worry about me? I only wish I could die this very minute! If you have any feeling for me, just bring up Qiaojier after my death and I shall be grateful to you in the nether regions!
You've sense enough to see,
that even if they haven't come to complain he must hold me to blame. Though the trouble was sparked off outside, if I hadn't been greedy for money I'd have been in the clear. Now after scheming so hard arid trying all my life to get ahead, I've ended up worse off than anyone else! If only I hadn't trusted the wrong people! I heard something vaguely too about Master Zhen's trouble and how he abducted the wife of an honest citizen named Zhang to be his concubine, forcing her to kill herself rather than submit. Well, we know, don't we, who that fellow Zhang was? If that business comes out, Master Lian will be involved too and I shall lose face completely. I'd like to die this instant, but I haven't the courage to swallow gold or take poison. And here you are talking of getting a doctor for me! That's not doing me a kindness but a bad turn.
Give some of my things to Xifeng, and take Pinger some money so that she can look after her well. Once she's better I'll see what else can be done for her.
I have asked friends to see that they are looked after.
My grandmother can't be at peace in her old age, and that naturally upsets my father and mother. All the girls have scattered like clouds before the wind, with fewer left every day. How jolly it was, I remember, when we started that poetry club in the Garden; but ever since Cousin Lin's death I've felt gloomy, yet with Baochai by me I can't cry too often. And now she's so worried about her brother and mother, she hardly smiles all day.
When the old lady is upset, the rest of you should comfort her,
Why are you all weeping too?
 they announced. 
Give them our regards when you go back,
This misfortune must have been fated. It was kind of your master and mistress to think of us, and another day we'll go over to express our gratitude. I take it they've found your young lady a good husband  what's his family's position?
They are not too well-off,
But he's a handsome young man, and, from what we've seen of him, very easy-going. He looks rather like your Master Bao, and is said to have literary talents too.
That's good,
Being southerners, though we've lived here so long we abide by the customs of the south, so we haven't seen him yet. The other day I was thinking of my old family, and your young mistress is the one I love most   I used to have her here for the best part of the year. When she was old enough I meant to find a suitable huaband for her, but because her uncle was away I couldn't arrange a match. If she's lucky enough to have found a good young man, that sets my mind at rest. I'd wanted to attend the wedding feast this month, but my heart is burning over this terrible upset here, so how can I Possibly go? When you get back, give them my best regards. All of us here send our greetings. And tell your young lady not to worry about me. 1'm more than eighty years old, and even if I die today I shall have had a good life. I just hope that she and her husband will live happily together till old age; then I'll rest content in my grave.
Don't grieve, madam,
Nine days after the wedding you may be sure she'll come here with her husband to pay her respects. Then how pleased you'll be to see them!
This is scandalous!
I put Lian in charge to keep a check on things; but it seems that for years we've been spending our rents a year in advance, yet insisted on keeping up appearances! Setting no store by our hereditary titles and emoluments, how could we fail to be ruined? Even if I retrench now it will be too late.
Don't worry, sir,
This happens to every family. Why, even the princes, if you work out their expenses, don't have enough to live on. They just keep up appearances and get by for as long as they can. You at least have this small property thanks to the Emperor's favour, sir; but even if it had been confiscated too, wouldn't you still manage somehow?
You're farting!
You slaves have no conscience! When your masters prosper you throw money around; when they're done for you take off, leaving them to their fate. You say it's good that our property hasn't been confiscated, but with a grand reputation while unable to hold on to our capital, how can we stand your putting on airs outside, boasting and cheating people? And when trouble comes of it, you shift the blame to your masters! This charge against the Elder Master and Master Zhen is said to have come of our servant Bao Er blabbing; but this register lists no Bao Er   why is that?
This Bao Er was not on our roster. His name used to be on the Ning Mansion register. Because Master Lian thought him an honest fellow he had him and his wife transferred here. When later his wife died, Bao Er went back to the Ning Mansion. Then when you were busy in your yamen, sir, and Their Ladyships and the young gentlemen were away mourning for the Imperial Consort, Master Zhen took over the management of the house and reinstated Bao Er. But afterwards he left. Since you haven't run the household all these years, sir, how could you know such things? You may think this is the only name not on the roster, but actually each steward has quite a few of his relatives under him as under-servants.
Your Lordship, you are wanted at once at court for questioning!
After my term of office as Chief Examiner by His Majesty's favour, I inspected famine relie{
I returned home at the end of winter the year before last and was sent to inspect some works, after which I served as Grain Commissioner of Jiangxi until I was impeached and came back to the capital to my old post in the Ministry of Works. Never, day or night, did I neglect my duties. But in my folly I paid insufficient attention to household affairs and failed to train my sons and nephews correctly. I have proved unworthy of the Imperial favour and beg His Majesty for severe punishment.
You should kowtow your thanks for the Imperial favour,
What other petition have you?
Although I am guilty, His Majesty in His great favour has not punished me severely and my property has been returned to me. Overwhelmed with shame as I am, I would like to make over to the state my ancestral estate, emoluments and savings.
His Majesty, ever merciful to His subjects, disciplines them with Perspicacity, meting out unerring rewards and punishments,
Since you have been shown such clemency and had your property restored, it would be inappropriate to present any further petition.
Don't worry, madam,
We've lost everything and my husband is going so far away in his old age. Though I still have my son Lian, he always listens to his Second Uncle, and now that we have to live on him naturally Lian and his wife will take their side. What's to become of me left all on my own?
Lian was the one to blame for my two sisters' deaths; yet he's in no trouble now, not parted from his own wife, while we're left stranded. How are we to cope?
 he told her. '~But I've asked people to put in a word so that he and Zhen can come back to get their luggage together, and the ministry has agreed. I expect Rong will return with his grand-uncle and father. Please don't worry, madam. I shall see to this.
These years I've grown so old and useless that I haven't checked up on our family affairs,
Now the East Mansion has been confiscated. Not only the house either, but your elder brother and Lian have lost all their property too. Do you know how much is left in our West Mansion's treasury? And how much land in our eastern estates? You must give them a few thousand taels for their journeys.
If I tell her the truth she may be very worried; but if I don't, how am I to manage now  to say nothing of the future?
If you hadn't questioned me, madam, I wouldn't have ventured to report this. But since you ask   and Lian is here too   I must tell you that yesterday I investigated. Our treasury is empty. Not only is all the silver gone but we have debts outside too. Now that elder brother is in this predicament, if we don't bribe people to help, then in spite of His Majesty's kindness they may be hard put to it. But I can't think where the money is to come from. We've already used up next year's rent from our eastern estates, so can't raise any sums there for the time being. We shall just have to sell those clothes and trinkets which thanks to Imperial favour weren't confiscated, to cover the travelling expenses of elder brother and Zhen. As to what to live on ourselves, we can worry about that later.
Is our family reduced to this?
I didn't see it for myself, but in the old days my family was ten times richer than this one, yet after a few years of keeping up appearances - though we were never raided like this - it went downhill and in less than two years was done for! Do you mean to say we shan't be able to manage even for a couple of years?
 In tears he continued, 
We are reprobates who have forfeited the honours accorded to our ancestors and brought you grief, madam,
We don't even deserve a piece of ground in which to bury our bones after death!
The first thing to do is make ready for their journey. The authorities will probably not agree to their staying at home for more than a couple of days.
There's no time to be lost! I'm afraid it's no use trying to raise money outside, and it will be bad if they fail to leave by the appointed time. So I had better settle this for you. But the household is topsy-turvy - this won't do!
Take two thousand for your journey and leave your wife one thousand.
This three thousand is for Zhen,
You spoke of debts outside; well, they must be cleared. Take this gold to settle them. It's the others' fault that I have to part with all my possessions like this; but you're my son too, and I can't show favouritism. Baoyu is already married. The gold, silver and other things which I have left must be worth a few thousand taels, and that will go to him. Zhu's wife has always been dutiful to me, and Lan's a good lad, so I'll give them something too. This is all that I can do.
You are so advanced in years, Old Ancestress, and your sons and grandsons have failed in their duty to you. Your goodness to us makes us doubly ashamed!
Stop talking nonsense,
The old lady certainly is a good manager!
It's her worthless sons who have ruined the family.
I haven't much else,
What there is can be spent on my funeral, and anything left over can go to my maids.
Don't take it so hard, madam! Sharing in your good fortune, we can hope later on for more marks of Imperial favour; and then we shall exert our selves to set our house in order, and atone for our faults by caring for you until you are a hundred.
I certainly hope it turns out like that, so that I can face our ancestors after death. But you mustn't imagine I'm someone who enjoys riches and rank and can't endure poverty. These last few years you seemed to be doing fine, so I didn't interfere, content to laugh and chat and nurse my health, never dreaming that our family was doomed to ruin like this! I knew all along that we were putting on an empty show, but everyone in the household was so used to luxury that we couldn't cut down expenses all of a sudden. Well, here's a good chance to retrench, to keep the family going, if we don't want to become a laughing-stock. You expected me to be worried to death on hearing that we're bankrupt. But in fact I was upset because, recalling the honours conferred on our ancestors for their splendid services to the state, I kept wishing that you might do even better, or at least manage to keep what you'd inherited. Who knows what dirty business they got up to, uncle and nephew!
Just how is she?
Not too well, they say,
Ah!
Madam, you've been so upset and attended to so much business, you ought to rest now. If your grandson's wife is unwell, your daughter-in-law can go and see to her; there's no need to go yourself. If you were to be upset again and fall ill, how could your sons bear it?
How is she now?
She's a little better; Since you're here, madam, please step in and see for yourself.
Don't move,
Are you feeling a bit better?
Yes, madam,
 Here she broke down and sobbed, 
 said the old lady. 
 she said. 
Please go back, Your Ladyships,
When I'm a bit better I'll come to kowtow my thanks.
Mind you look after her well. If you're short of anything, come to me for it.
This is a hereditary title which our master already possesses; so how can you claim to be bringing us good tidings?
Hereditary titles are a great honour, harder to come by than an official appointment. Your Elder Master has lost his and will never get it back. But now His Sagacious Majesty has shown kindness greater than Heaven and restored this title to your Second Master  such a thing only happens once in a thousand years. So why don't you tip us for bringing the good news?
Let him be,
He was recommended by the Zhen family; we can hardly send him away. We may be in difficulties, but feeding one extra mouth won't make any difference.
See there!
That fine mansion was raided the other day. I wonder what's become of its owners.
How could a family like theirs be ruined?
You live here but don't know the first thing about it! The others weren't so bad, but that Prefect Jia was the limit! I've often seen him calling on both mansions, and after the censors impeached them the Emperor ordered him to investigate before any decision was made. What do you think he did? Because he'd been helped by both mansions, for fear of being accused of shielding them he gave them a vicious kick -that's why they were raided. Friendship doesn't mean a thing nowadays.
Are there such people in the world with no sense of gratitude?
I wonder what relation he is to our master. If I meet the scoundrel I'll knock him off-- and to hell with the consequences!
Clear the way!
It's Prefect Jia coming.
Heartless slave! How could you forget our Jia family's goodness to you?
Instead of remembering their kindness, he kicked them down,
When I cursed him just now he dared not answer back.
You haven't heard the latest,
The other day Pan's wife died in mysterious circumstances, nearly causing another scandal~ Thanks to the mercy of Buddha, the maid she had brought with her made a clean breast of the business, so that old Mrs. Xia couldn't raise a row and stopped them from holding an inquest. The trouble your aunt had getting rid of the Xi as! So you see the truth of the saying 'All kinsmen share the same fate.' The Xues are in a bad way. Now the only one she has staying with her is Ke. He's a good-hearted lad who says he won't marry while Pan is still in jail, his case not settled; that's why your Cousin Xiuyan is staying with the Elder Mistress and having a thin time. Baoqin hasn't married yet either, because Academician Mei's son is still in mourning for him. The Second Mistress' elder brother has died, Xifeng's elder brother is a nincompoop, and that niggardly Second Uncle of theirs has embezzled public funds; so they're in hot water as well. As for the Zhen family, we've had no news of them since their house was raided.
Has Cousin Tanchun written home since she left?
After her marriage your uncle came back with the news that she was happily settled at the coast. We've had no letter from her, though, and I miss her the whole time; but what with all the troubles our family's had, there's nothing I can do. Now Xichun's marriage still has to be fixed. As for Huan, who has time for him? We're harder up now than we used to be when you stayed here. Poor Baochai hasn't passed a single day in comfort since she came to our family. And your Cousin Bao's still so crazy   what can we do?
I grew up here so I know all my cousins we~,
The way we're living now is all right with me, but how can those young people stand it? I've been wondering how to give them a day's fun, but I haven't the energy for it.
I have an idea!
It's Baochai's birthday, isn't it, the day after tomorrow? I can stay an extra day to congratulate her, and we'll all have a day's fun. What do you think, madam?
Anger must have addled my wits. If you hadn't reminded me, I'd have forgotten. Of course, the day after tomorrow is her birthday. I'll get out some money to celebrate it tomorrow. We had several parties for her in the past, but not since she married into the family. Baoyu used to be such a clever, mischievous boy, but our family misfortunes have left him speechless. Zhu's wife is still a good daughter-in-law, quietly bringing Lan up and behaving the same whether things go well or badly   it's hard on her.
The one who's changed most is Cousin Xifeng,
She's lost her good looks and her old gift of the gab. Wait till I tease them tomorrow and see how they react. But I'm afraid, though they won't say so, they'll secretly resent the fact that now I have... 
Don't worry,
You and your cousins used to have a good time chaffing each other. You mustn't have such scruples. People should make the best of what they've got, able to enjoy rank and riches or to put up with poverty. Your Cousin Baochai has always been broadminded. When her family was well-off she wasn't the least bit conceited; later, when they got into trouble, she kept cheerful. Now that she's one of our family, when Baoyu treats her well she takes it calmly, and if he's bad to her it doesn't provoke her. I think that's her good fortune. Your Cousin Daiyu, on the other hand, was narrow-minded and hyper-sensitive; that's why she didn't live long. Xifeng, being more experienced, shouldn't let upsets influence her behaviour. If she's so foolish, that's rather petty too. Well, as the day after tomorrow is Baochai's birthday, I'll get out some silver for a lively celebration, to give her a happy day.
I certainly will.
Please take seats, ladies,
while we girls wish Cousin Baochai a long life.
Yes, of course tomorrow is my birthday.
Jt's right and proper for you girls to come and see the old lady,
I can't have you saying that it's on my account.
It's tomorrow, her birthday,
I was meaning to remind the old lady.
For shame!
The old lady doesn't need any reminding. Do you suppose these visitors would have come if she hadn't invited them?
You shouldn't have put yourself out, madam,
You've been having such an anxious time, and the child hasn't been dutiful enough.
The old lady's favourite grandchild is Cousin Bao,
So why shouldn't his wife be a favourite too? Besides, Baochai deserves a birthday party.
I thought marriage was bound to turn Cousin Shi into a different person, so I was afraid to approach her and she ignored me too; but it seems from the way she talks that she hasn't changed. In that case, why has Baochai grown so bashful since we married? She can hardly get a word out.
He said that our family was having a run of bad luck and I mustn't be tainted by it,
I couldn't talk him round so I didn't come, just cried for days on end.
Then why did he let you come today?
He says it's all right to keep up the connection now that our Second Master has inherited the title.
I was feeling very depressed,
That's why I invited you all here today to celebrate my granddaughter-in-law's birthday. I thought some fun and laughter would cheer us up, but here you are provoking me by bringing up those tiresome things again.
all together
We won't send any to the gentlemen outside,
Today's party is just for us womenfolk.
Sit down now and let's all drink,
You can go round and pay your respects to them later. If you do that now, everyone will be formal and that would spoil my fun.
Today we may as well let ourselves go,
We'll just keep one or two maids to wait on us, and I'll tell Yuanyang to take Caiyun, Yinger, Xiren and Pinger to the back to drink by themselves.
We haven't yet kowtowed to Madam Bao. How can we go off to drink?
Just do as I say,
We'll call you when we need You.
What's wrong with you?
We're eating and drinking   what more should we do?
 explained Xifeng. 
There's nothing we can talk about, madam, because any talk's bound to lead to something depressing. Why don't you get them to play a drinking game?
If we're to play drinking games we must call Yuanyang back.
Won't you let us drink a cup in peace, young master?
Why come and disturb us?
It's trne,
The old lady wants you there. This isn't my doing.
Just go on drinking, I'll be back before long.
 said the Lady Dowager. 
I came because Master Bao told me you wanted me, madam. What game would you like to play?
Those literary games are terribly dull, but rowdy ones are no good either. You must think of something fresh.
Aunt Xue at her age doesn't like to cudgel her brains, so why don't we fetch the dice-pot and toss for the names of melodies, making the losers drink?
Very well.
We'll throw four dice,
Anyone who fails to produce a name must drink one cup as forfeit. If a name is thrown, the others will have to drink according to the pips.
That sounds simple,
We'll do as you say.
The name for this,
is 'The Four Elders of Shangshan.' Those getting on in years should drink.
 objected Aunt Xue. 
It's too tame if you don't,
The melody's called Retreating into Flowers as Old Age Approaches.
Men may say that in idle moments I ape children.
Finding Peach-blossom Stream to escape from Qin.
I suppose I shall have to drink,
There's a name for this: 'The Swallow on the River Leads Its Fledgelings.' Everybody has to drink.
Many of the fledgelings have flown,
Well, what shall I say?
The Grandfather Leads His Grandchildren.
Idly watching children catching willow-catkins.
What is this called?
It's no good. Drink up and throw again.
This is called 'Zhang Chang Paints His Wife's Eyebrows,
Answer quickly, Cousin Bao, so that we can pass on to the next.
I'll pay the forfeit. There's no one after me either.
You've thrown 'The Twelve Girls with Golden Hairpins.
Very pretty!
Those twelve girls were supposed to be from Jinling,
How is it that of all those in our family only these few are left?
I'm stumped. There are people missing too. I'd better pay the forfeit.
This game isn't much fun, let's give it up,
Let Yuanyang have a try. See what she gets.
Not a five!
Too bad!
I've lost.
Doesn't this count as anything?
Well, it has a name, but I can't think what melody goes with it.
Tell me its name and I'll think up something for you.
That's not difficult. Here you are: Autumn Fish Amid Caltrops.
I sang white water-weeds on the southern river in autumn.
Very apt,
This game's finished. Let's drink a few cups, then have rice,
Where has Baoyu gone? Why isn't he back yet?
Who went with him?
When I saw Master Bao going out I told Sister Xiren to go with him.
Where is Master Bao?
Over with the old lady, drinking.
I've just come from there, sent by Her Ladyship to find him. If he were there, why should she send me?
In that case I don't know where he is,
You'd better try somewhere else.
Have you seen Master Bao?
I'm looking for him too,
The mistresses are waiting for him to start dinner. Wherever can he have got to? Hurry back and tell the old lady, not that he's not at home but that he's feeling out of Sorts after drinking and doesn't want any food. After resting for a little he'll rejoin them. He hopes Their Ladyships will start without him.
He never eats much,
So missing a meal doesn't matter. Tell him to have a good rest and not to trouble to come back today as we have his wife here instead.
Did you hear that?
Nothing,
I'm just bored. While they're drinking, suppose we stroll over to Madam You's place.
She's with the old lady,
How can you call on her?
I'm not thinking of calling on anyone, just of seeing what her place is like.
Is this small gate always open?
No, it's usually kept shut,
Today, hearing that the old lady might be wanting fruit from the Garden, we opened it in readiness.
Don't go in there,
The Garden's unclean after being deserted for so long, and you might see another apparition.
I'm not afraid of such things!
Since moving out of the Garden because of my illness, I've been living in the hack and haven't been allowed to come here for months. How quickly the place has run wild! Look, the only green things left are those bamboos. Isn't that Bamboo Lodge?
After a few months away, you've even lost your bearings,
We were so busy chatting, you didn't notice passing Happy Red Court.
Bamboo Lodge is over there.
Have we really passed it?
Let's go back and have a look.
It's getting late, time to go home. The old lady must be waiting for you to start dinner.
Do you hear anything?
Is there anybody staying in Bamboo Lodge?
I shouldn't think so.
I distinctly heard sobbing inside, so there must be someone.
That's just your imagination. Because you often used to come here before and find Miss Lin weeping.
Better go back, Master Bao. It's growing dark. Other places aren't scary, but this is out of the way and they say that since Miss Lin's death weeping has often been heard here, so everybody gives the place a wide berth.
So it's true!
Cousin Lin! Cousin Lin! There was nothing the matter with you, but I killed you! Don't hold it against me   my parents made the decision. It's not that I was untrue!
Whatever possessed you?
Why bring Master Bao here of all places? Their Ladyships are so frantic, they've sent out search parties. Just now someone at the side-gate said the two of you had come here, so frightening Their Lady ships that they lashed out at me and ordered me to bring people here at once. Hurry up and go back!
Xiren!
I entrusted Baoyu to you thinking you had some sense. How could you take him to the Garden today, with him just over his illness? If something had given him a turn and brought on another fit, what should we have done?
What does it matter in broad daylight?
It's so long since I've had a stroll in the Garden that I went there after drinking to clear my head. How could anything there possibly give me a turn?
Cousin Bao's too reckless!
Not reckless but loyal,
He must have gone to find the Hibiscus Spirit, or in search of some other goddess!
Did anything frighten you in the Garden?
 she said. 
That's true, her corning back is out of the question. I was on good terms with her too, so if her spirit were still in the Garden how is it I've never seen her once in my dreams?
Yes, this is strange! Though I've thought of her time and again each day since her death, why has she never appeared to me in dreams? She must have gone up to Heaven, I suppose, and because I'm too vulgar to have any communication with the divine I've not once dreamed of her. Well, tonight I'll sleep in the outer room and maybe, now that I've visited the Garden, she'll know my heart and ~et me dream of her. I must ask her where she's actually gone and offer regular sacrifices to her. If she'll really have nothing to do with a lout like me and won't let me dream of her, then I'll stop thinking about her.
Tonight I'm going to sleep in the outer room, and you can just let me be.
I just said that for fun,
I'll join you after sitting here awhile. You must be tired; you'd better turn in first.
That's a wild way to talk!
If Cousin Lin were alive she'd take offence again.
I meant to come in but somehow or other I happened to fall asleep.
What's it to me whether you come in or not?
He's quite all right. He went to sleep as soon as we got back.
Miss Yingchun has to go home. They say Mr. Sun sent servants to complain to the Elder Mistress, who sent word to Miss Xifeng to let her go back. Miss Yingchun's weeping in the Elder Mistress' room. She should be coming soon to say goodbye.
Such a brute of a husband has ruined her life,
All right, you'd better go back,
But don't be so upset. It's no use crying over spilt milk. I'll send for you again in a few days' time.
You've always been goodness itself to me, madam,
But now there's nothing you can do. And I'm afraid this is the last time I shall see you!
What's to stop you from coming again?
Your third sister's worse off, so far away that she's hardly any chance of coming home.
It's not impossible,
Once peace is restored along the coast and her father-in-law is transferred to the capital, we shall see each other again.
That's true,
Your brother's got by this year. When there's an Imperial amnesty and his sentence is commuted, we can try to ransom him. But how am I to manage these next few years on my own? I'd like to get Xue Ke married. Do you think that a good idea?
You had doubts about it before, mother, because you were horrified by my sister-in-law,
I think it's high time that you saw to this. You know Xiuyan and what a thin time she's having here. Once she marries into our family, though we're poor, at least she'll be much better off than staying here as a dependent.
Then find a chance to mention it to the old lady. Tell her I need someone to help out, and so I want to fix the wedding day.
Why not just discuss it with Cousin Ke? When you've chosen a good day you can come and tell the old lady and Elder Mistress, then take her over and be done with it. The Elder Mistress here is eager to get her married off.
I heard today that your Cousin Shi's going back too. The old lady wanted to keep Baoqin for a few days and she's staying. As I think that sooner or later she'll be leaving home to get married, you'd better take this chance to have some good talks.
Yes, mother, I will.
The fact that I didn't dream of Daiyu last night may be because she has become an immortal and doesn't want to meet vulgar oafs like me; or it may be because I'm too impatient.
Last night I happened to doze off outside, and slept so much more soundly than in here that I woke up this morning feeling refreshed. So   if you've no objection   I'd like to sleep outside for a couple more nights.
What's that got to do with me?
You can sleep wherever you like; why should we stop you? But don't let your fancy run wild or put a jinx on yourself.
What an idea!
Take my advice, Master Bao, and sleep inside,
If you're not well looked after outside and catch cold, that will be bad.
Very well then. We'll get somebody to keep you company, to pour you tea during the night.
In that case, you stay with me,
She's used to staying with me, so let her do that. Sheyue and Wuer can look after you. Besides, she's tired out after dancing attendance on me all day; we should let her have a good rest.
It's time to sleep,
Why are you practising yoga?
You all go to bed. I'll sit here a bit then sleep.
The way you behaved yesterday kept Madam Bao awake all night. Are you starting all over again?
Do you want something, Master Bao?
If I'd known I was going to get a bad name, I'd have committed myself.
Rinse your mouth, Master Bao.
You and Sister Qingwen were on good terms, weren't you?
We were like sisters; of course we were on good terms.
Did you hear her say anything?
No.
Master Bao!
Say what you have to say, but keep your hands to yourself.
She said to me, 'If I'd known I was going to get a bad name, I'd have committed myself.' Did you hear that?
That was a shameless thing to say,
How can young girls talk like that?
Are you such a moralist?
It's because you look just like her that I confided this to you. Why run her down in that way?
It's late. You'd better sleep, Master Bao. If you keep sitting up you may catch cold. What did Madam Bao and Sister Xiren tell you?
I'm not cold.
Why didn't you put more on before bringing my tea?
Don't you want to have a good rest tonight, Master Bao?
Not a bit of it!
To tell you the truth, I'm hoping to meet a goddess.
What goddess?
Why shouldn't you? It was very cold that year when Qingwen played a trick on Sheyue, and for fear she might catch cold I tucked her under my quilt. What does it matter? It's hypocritical to be so prudish.
Don't talk such nonsense,
Suppose someone was to hear? No wonder people say you waste all your time on girls! You have Madam Bao and Sister Xiren, both as pre~y as goddesses, yet you insist on fooling around with others. If you go on talking that way I'll report it to Madam Bao  then what face will you have left?
Could Cousin Lin have come? Maybe hearing me talk she decided to give us a fright.
Why get up so early?
Couldn't you sleep last night?
The ways of immortals and mortals never meet.
Did you meet a goddess last night?
What do you mean?
Did you hear Master Bao talk with someone in his sleep?
He obviously had Daiyu in mind. If we let him stay outside, he may get more deranged and some flower fairy or tree spirit may take possession of him. Besides, his illness was brought on by his strong feeling for her. If only there were some way to divert his affection to me, he'd get over it.
I've been rather greedy these two days and had too much to eat,
Missing a meal will set me right. Don't make a fuss about it.
Are you going to sleep outside again tonight?
Outside or inside   it's all the same to me,
Well, just what does that mean?
I don't believe you slept so well outside.
When Master Bao sleeps outside, the only snag is that he talks in his sleep in a way we can't understand, yet we dare not talk back.
I'll move my bed outside tonight to see whether I talk in my sleep or not,
You two move Master Bao's bedding back to the inner room.
You like it?
This was given me by my great-grandfather. Now I'm passing it on to you.
If your mother sees it,
She'll tell your father and he'll say that I love my grandson more than my son! They've never even seen this.
 he explained. 
I remember that year when Cousin Bao fell ill, we got a man who wasn't a professional to cure him. We'd better call him in again.
Medicine is abstruse, and the least celebrated physicians are often the best,
Send to ask him over.
That Doctor Liu has recently left town to teach. He only comes back every ten days or so. As we can't wait, I've invited another man who should be here presently.
She's a rare visitor,
Since she's called today, hurry up and show her in.
When I stayed in the Garden 1 could often drop in to see you; but now that it's so deserted I don't like to go in on my own, and the side-gate is usually closed, so I haven't seen you for ages. I'm so glad you've come!
You were all of you so lively in the old days that even when you were living in the Garden I didn't feel it appropriate to call too often,
A kindly old lady like you is bound to live to a great age,
You've just caught cold, and a few doses of medicine should set you right. Old people shouldn't worry.
 replied the old lady. 
I've had my lunch,
I won't eat anything, thank you.
That's all right,
But stay a little longer to chat.
Why are you so thin, Fourth Sister? Don't let your fondness for painting wear you out!
I haven't painted for ages,
I don't feel like it because my present rooms aren't as light as those in the Garden.
Where are you living?
In that house east of the gate you came through. It's very close if you care to drop in.
I'll call when I'm in the mood,
What brings you here?
I've been waiting outside for sorne time but couldn't find a soul, and I dared not burst in   I was frantic!
Why, what's wrong? Has Mr. Sun been bullying your young lady again?
My young lady's dying! The day before yesterday they had a row and she cried all night long. Yesterday she was choking, her throat blocked up with phlegm, yet they wouldn't get a doctor. Today she's worse!
The old lady's ill; don't kick up such a shindy.
Is Yingchun dying?
No, madam,
These women are all alarmists. She says Yingchun hasn't been well the last couple of days and may take Some time to recover. They want us to get her a doctor.
My doctor's a good one. Have him fetched at once.
What a fool that woman is!
In future when I'm with the old lady and you have something to report, it can wait.
The old lady wanted to see Miss Shi and sent us to ask her to come, she told her. 
The old lady's sinking fast,
You're to send at once to make the necessary preparations. First, get out the coffin and have it lined. Then get the measurements of the whole household and order tailors to make mourning for them. The funeral retinue must be arranged too, and more hands will be needed to help in the kitchen.
You needn't worry, Second Master. We've got it all figured out. But where is the money to come from?
 replied Jia Lian. 
How is your mistress today?
Go in and see her.
I'm afraid you can't rest now,
The old lady will be gone by tomorrow at the latest, so you can't keep out of it. Hurry up and get somebody to clear up here, then make the effort to go over there. If it comes to the worst, we shan't be able to come back today.
What is there here to clear up?
We've only these few things left, so what does it matter? You go first; the master may want you. I'll come when I've changed my clothes.
The old lady's pulse is very weak. Be prepared....
Not this. Give me a cup of tea.
I want to sit up.
If you want something, madam, just tell us,
There is no need to sit up.
After a little drink I feel better,
Prop me up on the pillow so that I can talk to you.
I've lived in your family sixty years and more, from girlhood to old age, and had more than my share of good fortune. Reckoning from your father down, all my sons and grandsons are good. But Baoyu whom I've been so fond of...
You must make good, child!
Yes, madam.
I shall be content if I can see another great-grandson born. Where is my Lan?
You must be a dutiful son,
Make your mother feel proud of you when you grow up! Where is Xifeng?
Here I am.
You're too clever, child; you must do more good works. I haven't done many myself, simply letting others take advantage of me. I never went in much for fasting or chanting Buddhist scriptures, except that year when I had all those copies of the Diamond Sutra made. Have they all been distributed?
Not yet,
Then hurry up and have them all given away. Our Elder Master and Zhen are enjoying themselves outside, but the most heartless one of all is that little wretch Xiangyun who still hasn't come to see me!
I ran this household before and the staff here obey me,
The servants of Lady Xing and Madam You used to be troublesome, but now they've gone. Though we haven't used a tally to get money from the treasury, we have ready cash in hand for this purpose which is even better; and my husband is in charge of affairs outside. So even if my health isn't what it was, I don't think I'll fall down on the job as it's bound to be simpler than that time in the Ning Mansion.
We've fewer hands now for the old lady's funeral than that time in the East Mansion,
Sister Yuanyang would like you to go over, madam.
Please sit down, madam, and let me kowtow to you. Mourners can dispense with ceremony, they say, but I must kowtow to you now!
What does this mean? Just tell me what you want,
You've always been a sensible girl. Why are you carrying on like this now?
I can't help worrying, because the Elder Mistress lets things slide and the master's afraid of being ostentatious. If you share his view, madam, that for a family that's been raided to have a splendid funeral may lead to another raid, and don~t care about the old lady, what's to be done? I'm just a boudmaid and this doesn't concern me; but our family's reputation is at stake!
I understand. Don't worry. I'~ see to it.
What an odd creature Yuanyang is! I wonder what's on her mind? By rights the old lady should have a handsome funeral. Well, never mind her. We'll do it according to our family tradition.
What do you want me for?
 said Xifeng. 
 scoffed ha Lian. 
Have they issued the silver yet?
Then how are We to manage?
What time is it?
Why haven't you prepared the sacrificial offerings?
That's easily done,
But first we have to be issued with supplies.
You stupid creatures!
Of course you'll get what you need for the jobs you're given.
Why ask me?
Didn't Master Lian pawn them that year? Has he ever redeemed them?
We don't need gold or silver, just an ordinary dinner service.
Hasn't that gone to Lady Xing and Madam You?
Why is she bungling things like this now when she used to be such a good manager? In the last few days things have been at Sixes and sevens. The old lady's love for her was thrown away!
Ask the Elder Mistress.
It's true, Xifeng isn't putting herself out.
Though our family's in these straits, we must keep up appearances. I've noticed that in the last few days our visitors haven't been properly looked after. I suppose you didn't give instructions for this. You must bestir yourself a bit more for us!
By rights we daughters-in-law, not you young people, should see to these things. But as we can't leave the coffin we entrusted them to you. You mustn't trifle with your task.
We'll hold the fort here,
Run along to make preparations for tomorrow.
Take pity on me, nannies!
 they said. 
 said Xifeng. 
 they countered. 
 Xifeng sighed, 
Isn't Master Lian in charge outside?
Can't he attend to such things?
Don't tell me he's in charge! He's in a fix too. In the first place, the silver isn't in his hands and he has to put in a request for every purchase. Re has no ready money.
Isn't the sum the old lady left in his hands?
Go and ask the stewards presently   they'll tell you.
No wonder then!
We've heard the men outside complain, 'A big do like this, yet there's nothing in it for us except hard work!' So how can you expect people to pull together?
Never mind that now but concentrate on the work in hand. Any more complaints from above and I shan't let you off!
How dare anyone grumble, whatever you want done, madam? But it's really hard for us to please everyone with each of the mistresses giving different orders.
Of course Madam Lian wants to do things in style, but the master and Their Ladyships have forbidden any extravagance, which makes her unable to satisfy everybody.
You're quite right, madam, and we'd never dream of making trouble. But Sister Yuanyang and the others seem to hold Madam Lian to blame.
I've spoken to Yuanyang too,
I've explained to her that it's not that Madam Lian doesn't take the old lady's funeral seriously, but she doesn't control the money, and how can the smartest daughter-in-law make gruel without rice? Now that Yuanyang understands she's stopped blaming her. Still, it's extraordinary the way Yuanyang has altered. When she was the old lady's favourite, she didn't try to take advantage of it; now that the old lady's gone and she has no backing, she seems to have changed for the worse. I used to worry what would become of her. Luckily the Elder Master isn't at home now, so she's escaped his clutches. Otherwise, what could she have done?
 said Li Wan. 
If you're going to sleep, mother, I'll curl up in my quilt too and think over my lessons.
It's too early to say,
And who knows what will have become of our family by the time he grows up? But what's your opinion of young Master Huan?
That one's even worse!
He has eyes like a real monkey, darting shiftily this way and that. Though he's supposed to wail by the coffin, when the ladies come he spends all his time peeping at them round the curtain before it.
Actually he's no longer a child,
The other day I heard they were thinking of finding him a wife, but now that will have to wait. Still, our family's too big for us to sort Out everyone's problems, so let's not gossip about them. And there's something else I meant to ask. The funeral procession is to be the day after tomorrow. Are carriages ready for all the different households?
Madam Lian seems so distracted these days that we haven't seen her issuing instructions. Yesterday we heard from the men outside that Master Lian told Master Qiang to see to this. As our family doesn't have enough carriages or drivers, he says we'll have to borrow some from relatives.
Can carriages be borrowed?
You must be joking, madam! Of course they can. But that day all our relatives will be using theirs, so borrowing may be hard and we'll probably have to hire some.
We shall have to hire some for the servants, but how can the ladies take hired mourning carriages?
The Elder Mistress has no carriage now. Neither have Madam You and Master Rong's wife from the East Mansion,
What can they do but hire some?
The men of old said that of all flowers the plum-blossom ranks first. That must be not only because it's the first to bloom, but because its pure white and its fine fragrance are matchless. If only Cousin Lin were here now, dressed like this, how beautiful she would be!
So here you are, madam!
The old lady was so good to me, I must follow her!
Of the masters, I've told Jia Yun to stay behind,
I hear from your mother that your wife is too unwell to go. She can stay at home. And your Sister-in-law You suggests that since she is so ill, Xichun should keep her company and get a few maids to look after the mistresses' quarters.
Please have a rest, sir, while I go in to settle it with them before reporting back.
I've been with the old lady all my life, and I've found no niche for myself. Although the Elder Master isn't at home now, I don't think much of the Elder Mistress either. And with the Second Master letting things slide, there'll be such chaos in future that there's no knowing who else may take over. Then we shall be at their mercy, whether they decide to make us concubines or marry us off to some servants. I couldn't stand that. Better die and be done with it! But how shall I kill myself?
Who is she? She has the same idea as mine, but is a step ahead of me.
Who are you?
Since we're both of the same mind, let's die together.
Ah, I know,
That was Master Rong's first wife from the East Mansion. She died so long ago, what brought her here? She must have come to summon me. But why should she hang herself?
That's it. She's showing me the way.
Wait for me, Madam Rong!
I am not Madam Rong,
but the sister of the Goddess of Disenchantment.
I can see quite clearly that you're Madam Rong  why should you deny it?
Let me tell you the reason, then you'll understand. I was the Arbiter of True Love in the palace of the goddess, and all romantic affairs were in my charge; then I descended to the dusty world as the most amorous of mortals, to lead all lovesick maidens back betimes to the Board of Love. This is why it was my Tot to hang myself. Now that I have seen through earthly love, passed over the sea of love and returned to heaven, there is no one in charge of the Board of Infatuation in the Illusory Land of Great Void. The Goddess of Disenchantment has appointed you in my Place to head this Board, and has therefore ordered me to lead you there.
I have never known passion,
How can I count as amorous?
Where can the wretch have run off to?
Have you seen Sister Yuanyang?
I'm looking for her too,
Their Ladyships want her. Is she asleep in the annex?
I had a peep and didn't see anyone. The lamp hasn't been trimmed, and it was too dark and scary to go in. But now we can go in together, to make sure there's no one inside.
Who put the stool here? It nearly tripped me up!
I never imagined Yuanyang had it in her! We must send word of this at once to the master.
Cry if you want to, but don't suppress your feelings.
Only someone like Yuanyang would Choose this way to die!
 cried Xiren. 
Don't worry,
He has his reason.
After all she understands me. The others don't.
What a good girl!
The old lady's love for her wasn't thrown away.
Go and send to buy a coffin immediately and give her a good funeral. Tomorrow her coffin can go in the old lady's cortege and be left in the temple behind the old lady's coffin. This is what she wished for.
She really had spirit, the lucky girl!
Winning herself a good name like this and a fine send-off!
What a way to talk!
 he said. 
It's enough for one of the masters to kowtow to her,
If we overdo it she'll lose her chance of reincarnation.
By rights I shouldn't pay homage to her, but after the old lady's death we dared do nothing rash because of all the business we had to attend to; and as she showed true filial piety in our place, we should entrust to her the task of serving the old lady in our stead when she enters paradise. So it's only right for us to express our thanks.
Why not play to recoup your losses?
I would if I could,
but I've no money.
You' ve been with your godfather for several days and must have got pots of money from the Rong Mansion. Don't go telling us you're broke.
Shut up!
They've got millions all right, but they're hanging on to it. It'll serve them right if one of these days there's a fire or thieves break in.
You're lying again,
After their place was raided they can't have much left.
A fat lot you know. It was only things from the palace that got confiscated. The old lady left masses of gold and silver, but they won't touch it   it's all tucked away in her room waiting to be shared out after the funeral.
I've lost quite a bit but won't try to win it back now. I'm for bed.
Come on,
 said the man. 
Brother, they may be rolling in gold and silver, yet when the likes of us ask for a cent or two will they part with it for nothing?
If they won't, what's to stop us from helping ourselves?
Then what do you suggest?
How would you go about it?
If you want to make a pile,
all you need do is act as guide. I have plenty of friends who are dabs at this. Not to say the Jias are away at the funeral, with only a few women left in the house; no matter how rnany men were there we wouldn't be afraid! All I'm afraid of is that you haven't the guts.
Of course I have! Do you think I'm scared of that godfather of mine? I only put up with him for my godmother's sake. He doesn't count. As for your idea, I'm afraid it may be a flop and land us in trouble instead. They have connections, you know, in all the yamens. So quite apart from the fact that we may not pull it off, even if we do they'll raise a hullabaloo.
If that's all that's worrying you, you're in luck! I've palled up with some men from the coast, who are on the look-out here for some opening. If we get the loot, there's no point in staying here   we'd better go to sea to have a good time, eh? If you don't want to ditch your godmother, we can take her along as well to share the fun. How about it?
You must be drunk, old man, to talk such rubbish!
Where are you going, reverend sister?
We heard today that the services for the old lady have ended, but didn't see Miss Xichun with the cortege, so we think she must be at home minding the house. For fear she may feel lonely, my mistress has come to call on her.
The family are all away and I'm the gateman here,
I must ask you to go back. If you want to call, wait till the masters are back.
What upstart scavenger are you,
that you try to interfere with our coming or going?
I've no use for the likes of you,
I won't let you in, so you'll just have to lump it.
The impertinence!
Even when the old lady was alive, no one ever stopped us from coming. Who are you, you lawless brigand? We're going this way, so there!
I'm to stay and look after the house, and shall have to manage as best I can for a few nights; but Madam Lian is ill and I find it boring and scaring all on my own. If I had company I'd feel easier, for there isn't a single man in the house now. As you've done me the honour of calling today, won't you spend the night with me? We can play draughts and chat.
I must meditate at the fifth watch,
My maid will look after me. You'd better rest.
Help!
Men have broken in!
Mercy!
They must be robbers!
What shall we do? There are some rough fellows outside.
The old lady's room has been ransacked, but there's nobody there. We have men at the east side; let's search the west ourselves.
There are lots of them on our roof!
Look! There they are!
Don't let one of them get away!
All follow me!
One has gone,
Some others are up on the roof.
 he swore. 
He knocked down one of our mates whom, dead or alive, we'd better carry off.
Do you have thieves here?
We haven't opened the gate. We only heard them shouting that there were thieves in the old lady's rooms. You'd better go there.
Are you all dead? Didn't you know when thieves broke in?
We took turns keeping watch, and our shifts were before midnight. We never stopped making our rounds from front to back. Those thieves came well after midnight when we'd gone, so we just heard shouting but didn't see anybody. You must ask the women in charge of the later shifts, sir.
You all deserve to die!
We'll deal with you later. Let's go first to the different quarters to have a look.
Oh, what a fright we had!
Did you lose anything here?
Nothing.
Mercy on us!
Our young lady's fainted for fright. Quick, bring her round!
Thieves were fighting here, and our young lady passed out for terror. Luckily Sister Miaoyu was here, and she and Caiping revived her. We haven't lost anything.
What were the thieves fighting over?
We have to thank Bao Yong for jumping on the roof to chase them away. We heard that he knocked down one of the thieves too.
He's by the Garden gate,
You'd better go quickly to have a look at him.
They were brigands, not thieves.
If they didn't break in openly with torches and clubs, how can you call them brigands?
That proves it,
If they'd been brigands, couldn't they have beaten you people? Never mind that now. Quickly check on what has been stolen and send in a list so that we can report it to our superiors.
There were many things in these cases and chests, and now they're all empty. It must have taken quite a time to ransack them. What were those women on night duty doing? And the thief killed was Zhou Rui's godson. So it must have been partly an inside job.
Have all those women locked up,
Then take them to the police to be cross-examined!
 said Lin Zhixiao and Jia Yun. 
This is our fate,
Why talk to them? Just turn them in. As for what was stolen, assure the police that it was the old lady's property and we must find out from the masters just what she had. After this is reported to them and they come back, we shall certainly send in the list of stolen goods and notify the civil authorities too.
I've never heard of such a thing before! Why did this have to happen to us of all people? How can I face the master and mistress when they come back? They'll say: We entrusted the house to you, and you let this dreadful thing hap-pen. How can I live on?
We didn't wish it on ourselves, did we?
Anyway, it's the night~watch~~5 who are responsible.
You have some justification because you're ill; but I have no excuse. It's my elder sister-in-law who did for me by getting the mistress to make me mind the house! How can I look anyone in the face again?
Don't take it so hard,
We've all lost face equally. If You take this silly attitude I shall feel worse.
I've always said those nuns, bawds, go-betweens and the like are no good! Our Zhen family never let such creatures cross our threshold. Who would have thought this house would put up with them? Yesterday, the moment the old lady's cortege left, that nun from some small temple was dead set on coming over here. When I refused to admit her, the old woman aL the side-gate bawled me out and fairly grovelled to invite her in. The side-gate kept opening and shutting   heaven knows what they were up to! I was too worried to sleep, and at the fourth watch bedlam broke loose inside. They wouldn't let me in when I saw a fellow standing in the west courtyard I charged over and killed him. Today I've discovered that this is where Miss Xichun lives, and where that nun came. She sneaked off this morning before it was light. Stands to reason it was the nun who led the thieves in!
Who is this mannerless wretch?
How dare he shout so wildly outside when there are ladies in here?
 Xifeng said. 
 She asked Xichun, now even more upset by Bao Yong's diatribe, 
So that's who it was. And she was willing? Well, wonders will never cease! But if this tiresome wretch keeps yelling about it and the master bears, there may be trouble.
Wait till we've seen them put away the things left by the thieves and assigned people to keep an eye on the place,
How can we put anything away till officers have come to investigate? We'll just have to stay and keep watch here. But has anyone gone to report this to the master?
Of course we must clear out,
But I can't bear to leave that nun behind. She's certainly a beauty! I wonder from which nunnery this chick comes.
I know!
She must be from that Green Lattice Nunnery in the Jia Mansion. Wasn't there talk some years ago of an affair between her and their Master Bao? She was said to be so lovesick that a doctor was called in to give her some potion.
Let's lie low for one more day while our chief buys what we need for the journey. Tomorrow when the dawn bell strikes, you can leave the city gate separately and wait for me at Twenty~/i Slope outside.
How did you draw up the list of stolen property?
So much the better. As our house was searched, to list any valuables would be reprehensible. Tell Lian to come here at once.
You worthless wretch!
When I trusted you with such an important job, you should have seen to it that the place was patrolled at night. What are you   a zombie? I wonder you have the nerve to come and report it.
It's no use swearing at him.
What shall we do, sir?
Where are you going?
I'm going to hurry home to straighten things out, sir.
 ordered Jia Zheng. 
How will you have the face to meet us tomorrow?
Have officers been sent to investigate?
The civil authorities have investigated the tracks made by the thieves, and also examined the corpse, sir.
What corpse!?
Why didn't you report to the master that Zhou Rui's godson was one of the thieves and he was killed by Bao Yong?
The night-watchmen th6ught it looked like him, but as we couldn't be sure I didn't report it.
 swore Jia Lian. 
The police have taken the corpse to the market-place to see who claims it.
Then they're idiots too!
Who's going to ask to have justice done if one of his family has been killed as a robber?
Actually, they don't have to identify him,
I recognized him all right.
Yes, wasn't it Zhou Rui's godson whom Master Zhen wanted to punish that year?
He had a fight with Bao Er, and you saw him yourself, sir.
Please don't be angry, sir. Which of those watchmen would dare shirk his duty? But the rule of our house is that none of them can enter the inner gate   even we don't go in unless sent for. Master Yun and I kept a careful check outside and saw that the inner gate was firmly locked. None of the outer gates was opened either. The thieves came from the back passage.
Then how about those women inside who were watching during the night?
Where is Bao Yong now?
He has gone back to the Garden.
Bring him here.
I came from Yuanmu to the capital hoping to make a name; but then 1 was invited here and couldn't go anywhere else. Yesterday out of kindness I called on Xichun only to be abused by that lout, and during the night I had another bad fright. Coming back today I still feel on tenterhooks, unable to concentrate.
Where can she have gone so early?
Mercy on us!
Some thief must have drugged us last night!
 said the serving-women. 'But what do you want us for so early in the morning?
Our mistress has disappeared.
She'll be meditating in the hall.
Sister Miaoyu disappeared last night so we've come looking for her. Please be good enough to open the gate to let us ask whether she's here or not.
That mistress of yours brought in thieves to rob our family,
Now she's gone off with them to enjoy the loot.
Amida Buddha! What a thing to say! Aren't you afraid of going to the Hell Where Tongues Are Cut Out?
 he fumed. 
Please tell them to open the gate,
We just want to have a look. If she isn't there we won't trouble you again, sir.
If you don't believe me, go ahead and look. But if you don't find her you'll have to answer for it.
After Miaoyu left so early, can she have heard what that fellow Bao said? If she's offended she may never come back, and I shall be left friendless. I'm really in a fix now, with my parents dead and my sister-in-law against me. The old lady used to be good to me but now she's gone too, leaving me all alone. What's to become of me?
Before one trouble ends, another starts!
What shall we do?
She left first thing yesterday morning and hasn't been back,
Where has she gone?
Did none of you hear anything else?
We did. But though we were awake we couldn't utter a sound. Those thieves must have drugged us with narcotic incense. Most likely Sister Miaoyu was drugged too and unable to cry out. In any case, with all those thieves threatening her with swords and clubs, she wouldn't dare make a sound.
Hey, you there! Drive out those dirty nuns, quick! Hurry up and lock the gate.
What did you list?
Regarding the gifts from the Imperial Consort, we have noted them,
We left out certain other things which ordinary families are not supposed to have. As soon as it's time for me to stop wearing mourning I shall go and get people to make a careful search, and we should be able to recover them.
Better urge the master to go home early,
Or everything will be at sixes and sevens.
That's right,
Staying here we're on tenterhooks.
We juniors can't propose this,
But if you do, madam, the Second Master is bound to fall in with your wishes.
There's no need for that,
I've served the old lady all my life,
The Elder Master wouldn't take no for an answer, and tried all sorts of tricks to get hold of me. So I asked the sorceress Ma to help me get my own back, spending all that silver for nothing   neither of them was killed. Now I'm going back, I don't know who'll plot against me again!
Sister Yuanyang, you died of your own accord and Concubine Zhao had nothing to do with it. Please let her be.
 protested Concubine Zhao. 
 Then she screamed, 
Concubine Zhao is bewitched and Master Huan is looking after her.
What nonsense!
Leave some people here to look after her. We'll go back first. When we reach the city we'll send a doctor to see her.
Do I have to stay here?
 snapped Lady Wang. 
Good brother, you mustn't leave. When I get back to town I'll send people to see you.
 ordered Jia Zheng sternly. 
Thank you, miss, for looking after the house the last few days.
The police have arrested Bao Er,
They found on him Some of the things listed as stolen. Now they are interrogating him to find out the whereabouts of that gang of thieves.
What ingratitude!
Why are you still kneeling there?
I deserve death. I beg you, sir, to be merciful!
Give those to Master Lian to check and report back to me.
Rubbish!
Though the money for the old lady's funeral has been stolen, how can we punish our slaves by making them pay instead?
How is your wife?
It looks as if she's past saving.
I never guessed our family could go downhill so fast!
Huan's mother has fallen ill too in the temple, and we have no idea what the trouble is. Do you know?
Go and send servants to take a doctor to attend her.
You're beating me to death, Master Red Beard!
I shall never dare do such a thing again!
Please examine her pulse, sir, so that I can report it to our master.
So this is the end of a concubine! Though she at least had a son. Heaven knows what it will be like when I die!
Madam Lian must be done for too, if Concubine Zhao said it was she who denounced her.
How long it's been since last I saw you, Sister!
I missed you badly but was unable to see you. Now that you've worn yourself out by all your scheming, my chance has come at last. Our husband's too foolish to feel obliged to you and blames you instead for stinginess and for ruining his career, so that now he can't hold up his head. This is so unfair that my heart bleeds for you!
And I'm sorry now that I was so narrow-minded. Yet instead of bearing a grudge you come to see me!
What's that you're saying, madam?
My mind was wandering. I must have been talking in my sleep. Massage my back for me.
Where is she?
She won't presume to come in unless madam sends for her.
Madam is resting. Tell her to wait outside. Did you ask her business?
 answered the maid. 
Pinger, come here! Since she's kind enough to call we mustn't cold-shoulder her. Go and ask Granny Liu in. I want to chat with her.
Where has this man burst in from?
Do you want something, madam?
Where is Pinger?
Didn't you tell her to go and fetch Granny Liu, madam?
Where is Madam Lian?
I've come to pay my respects, madam.
How are you, granny?
Why haven't you been to see us for so long? How big your grand~daughter's grown!
Madam!
It's only a few months since last I saw you, and now you look so ill! It was very bad of me not to call earlier to pay my respects.
We villagers don't fall ill,
When we feel poorly we just pray and make pledges to the gods - we never take medicine. I daresay, madam, this illness of yours was brought on by evil spirits.
 she said with an effort. 
 exclaimed Granny Liu in surprise. 
He'll be all right,
The master and mistress will take care of him.
Not yet,
She's the one who gave you your name, so she's your godmother in a way. You should pay your respects to her.
Amida Buddha!
You mustn't do that to the likes of me! I haven't been here for over a year, Miss Qiaojie. Do you still remember me?
Of course I do. When I saw you that year in the Garden I was still small. The year before that when you came, I asked you for some green crickets but you didn't bring me any. You must have forgotten.
Ah, miss, I'm in my dotage. If it's green crickets you want, our village is swarming with them, but you never go there. If you did, you could easily get a whole cartful.
Well, take her back with you.
 Laughing at the idea she went on, 
 said Xifeng. 
You mentioned Her Ladyship whom you haven't seen yet. I'll go and find someone to take you there, to make your trip here more worthwhile.
What's the hurry? Sit down. Let me ask you: how are you making out these days?
If not for you, madam... 
After talking so long you must be parched,
Let's go and have some tea.
I don't need any tea,
But please, miss, get someone to take me to pay my respects to Her Ladyship and to weep at the old lady's shrine.
There's no hurry,
You can't leave town today anyway. Just now I was afraid you might say something tactless and set our mistress weeping again: that's why I hustled you out. I hope you don't mind.
Amida Buddha! I know how thoughtful you are, miss. But what's to be done about madam's illness?
Does it look serious to you?
Maybe it's wrong to say so, but it does.
Isn't your mistress taking medicine?
What if she isn't?
How should I know?
Bring me the key of the chest.
What the devil's your hurry?
Who's going to give me the key?
What do you want taken out?
 she sobbed angrily. 
What is there to say? You were the ones who brought all the trouble on us. Now we're four or five thousand taels short for the old lady's funeral, and the master told me to raise some money from the title-deeds of the family land   but what is there left? Do you want us to default? I should never have taken on this job! All I can do is sell the things the old lady left me. Are you against that?
Quick, sister!
Madam's in a bad way!
Now this!
I'm finished!
They're asking for you outside, sir.
The master wants you, madam.
 begged Xifeng. 
Granny, my life is in your hands!
And my little Qiaojie is always ailing too; I entrust her to you as well.
In this case, as it's still early, I'll go back now. When you recover, madam, you can go to thank the gods.
If you'll do this for me so that I can have a good night's sleep, I'll be very grateful,
You can leave your grand-daughter here.
She's a country girl with no manners, and may make trouble. I'd better take her back with me.
Don't worry about that. We're all one family, so what does it matter? Though we're poor now, one extra mouth to feed is nothing.
She must have been kidnapped,
As it wasn't in her nature to submit, she must have died resisting.
She used to call herself the 'one outside the threshold.' How could a chaste girl like that come to such an end?
How lively we were in the old days in the Garden! After my second sister's marriage, though, all the girls died or were married off. I thought she at least, unsullied by dust, would stay here; yet this sudden storm carried her off even more unexpectedly than Cousin Lin.
Though Lan hasn't gone back to school I hear he's studying hard day and night. He's the old lady's greatgrandson. The old lady always hoped that you, her grandson, would do well; and the master worries about you all the time. If because of some whimsy you ruin your health, what's to become of us all?
Why should I worry about other people? What upsets me is the decline in our family fortune.
There you are!
Your parents want you to do well so as to carry on the family line. If you stick to your silly ways what good will come of it?
I've never had a heart-to-heart talk with Zijuan since she came here and feel bad the way I've cold-shouldered her, especially as she's not like Sheyue and Qiuwen whom I can keep in their place. I remember how she kept me company all that time while I was ill, and I still have that little mirror of hers   she was really good to me then. But now for some reason or other she's treating me coldly. It can hardly be because of Baochai, who was good friends with Cousin Lin and who isn't bad to Zijuan either. When I'm out, Zijuan chats quite happily with her; but as soon as I come in she goes away. I suppose it must be because after Cousin Lin died I got married. Ah, Zijuan, Zijuan! Can't an intelligent girl like you understand how wretched I am?
They're sleeping or doing needlework this evening: here's my chance to go and find her. I'll sound her out. If I've offended her I'll beg her pardon.
Sister Zijuan,
Aren't you asleep yet?
It's me.
Is it Master Bao?
Yes,
What do you want?
I've something to tell you in private. Please let me in.
If you've something to tell me, young master, please wait until tomorrow. It's late now; you'd better go back.
I haven't much to say,
I just want to ask you one question.
Well then, out with it.
Have you gone or are you standing stupidly there? If you've something to say, fire away. You've already goaded one to death; is it my turn now? Isn't this futile?
Sister Zijuan! You used not to be so hard-hearted. How is it that nowadays you won't even say a single kind word to me? Of course I'm a lout, beneath your notice; but I do wish you'd tell me what I've done wrong so that even if you ignore me from now on I shall at least die knowing why.
Is that all, young master?
Have you nothing else to say? If this is all, I tired of hearing it when my young lady was alive. If we do anything wrong, I was sent here by Her Ladyship and you can report me to her. What are we bondmaids anyway but slaves?
How can you say such things!
After all these months here, surely you understand me? If no one else will tell you how I feel, won't you let me explain? Do you want me to die of frustration?
Who do you want to tell her for you? Whose slaves are we anyway? If you've offended her, it's up to you to apologize. Whether she'll accept your apologies or not is up to her. Why shift the blame to people like us who aren't involved?
 Sheyue continued. 
 Then she told Baoyu, 'Just now our mistress remarked that it's rather late and she wondered where you were. Why are you standing here all alone under the eaves?
Yes, what's the idea?
I asked the young master to go back. If he has something to say it can wait till tomorrow. This is so pointless!
Confound it! I shall never as long as I live be able to bare my heart. Only Old Man Heaven understands me!
Take my advice, young master, and give up,
You're crying for nothing.
Are you feeling all right?
Madam Lian is in a bad way, but not yet at her last gasp. The second master and mistress had better not go there just yet. 
That's odd!
Why should she go to Jinling?
I seem to remember you had a dream one year about some registers, didn't you? Perhaps that's where she's going.
That's right. It's a pity I can't remember what was written there. It goes to show that all mortals' fates are predestined. But where can Cousin Lin have gone, I wonder? Now that you've reminded me, I feel I have an inkling. If I ever have that dream again I must read those registers carefully so as to be able to foretell the future.
You're impossible to talk to!
How can you take a casual remark of mine so seriously? Even if you were able to foresee the future, what could you do about it?
I'm afraid it's out of the question. But if I knew in advance I wouldn't have to worry about you all.
We were talking about Cousin Xifeng.
Why gossip about somebody who's dying? In the past you blamed me for putting a jinx on people, but that prediction came true, didn't it?
Quite right, quite right!
So you can predict the future. In that case let me ask you to tell my fortune.
What nonsense!
I simply guessed at what the oracle meant. How can you take it seriously? You're as bad as my second sister-in-law. When you lost your jade, she asked Miaoyu to consult the planchette; and when nobody could understand what it wrote she assured me secretly that Maioyu could foretell the future and had attained enlightenment. How is it, then, that Miaoyu didn't know of the terrible thing that has happened to her now? Can this count as foretelling the future? Even if I hit upon the truth about Xifeng, I didn't really know what was going to happen to her. I don't even know what's going to happen to me, so how can I tell about you? All such auguries are bogus. How can you believe in them?
Never mind her. Let's talk about Cousin Xing,
What with one trouble after another here, we've forgotten about her marriage. It was such an important event in your family, how could you handle it so sloppily, not even inviting relatives and fiiends?
 asked Baoyu. 
Madam Lian has breathed her last and everyone's gone over there. Her Ladyship wants the young master and young mistress to go too now.
 she demurred. 
My sister worked hard for years running your household, and did nothing wrong,
So your family ought to take her funeral seriously. Why is nothing ready yet?
When your mother was alive,
 Qiaojie replied. 
Haven't you plenty of valuables?
How could we after that raid?
So you take that line too? I heard that the old lady gave you lots of things. Now is the time too use them.
Ha, I know!
You want to keep them all for your dowry!
If you have any complalnts, sir, wait till our master comes back. What does the child understand?
You were looking forward to your mistress' death so that you could take her place!
I don't want anything for myself; but you owe it to yourselves to keep up appearances.
My niece must be afraid I'll cadge on them; that's why she's taking her father's side. This minx is no good either!
Don't ruin your health by worrying too much,
To hell with my health!
I haven't even the money for daily expenses. What's to be done? And to make matters worse, this fool has come butting in. What do you expect me to do?
Don~t worry, Second Master. If you're short of money, I still have some things which luckily weren't confiscated. Take them, sir, to be going on with.
That's splendid,
It'll save me the trouble of borrowing right and left. I'll pay you back when I'm in funds again~
All I have was given me by the mistress, so why talk about paying me back? I just want this funer~ to be properly managed.
Now that the mistress is gone, Pinger wants to take her place,
I was the Elder Master's maid, so how can she outrank me?
Our family's gone downhill with so many dying one after the other, and the Elder Master and Master Zhen away. We are more hard pressed every day, and I don't know what's become of our farm at East Village. All in all, we're in a bad way!
Yes, after all these years here I know the situation,
Which of your servants hasn't been battening on you by filching things from your mansion year after year? Naturally you're runing shorter every year. On top of that you have to meet the expenses of the Elder Master and Master Zhen, not to mention your debts outside; besides, recently you were robbed, and the police aren't likely to catch the thieves or recover your stolen property. If you want to set your house in order, sir, you will have to summon your stewards and send one whom you trust to check up everywhere. Some servants should be dismissed; and if there is a deficit anywhere, make the one responsible pay for it. Then you will know where you are. As for that big Garden of yours, no one would dare sell it; but you haven't put anyone in charge of all its produce. During those years when you were away, these people got up to their tricks pretending the place was haunted so that everybody was afraid to go there. Better check up on your staff and keep on only the servants loyal to you, sending the rest away.
I don't mind telling you, sir,
that quite apart from the servants even my own nephews aren't to be relied on! If I start investigating, how am I to see to everything myself? Besides, being still in mourning, I can't attend to these things. And never having paid much attention to family affairs, I'm not clear what the situation is.
You are the soul of goodness, sir. If other families owned such a property and fell on hard times, they would be able to get by for five or ten years by applying to these stewards. Some of them, I hear, have had themselves made magistrates.
It's unthinkable to ask one's servants for money,
Quite true, sir. That's why I humbly suggest a check-up.
I suppose you have heard some talk?
Though I have an idea what these stewards are capable of, sir, I wouldn't dare voice my suspicions.
Since our grandfather's time we have always been kind masters, never treating our underlings harshly. But they seem to be getting more out of hand every day. If I try to act the stem master now, people will laugh at me!
Master Zhen from the Yangtze V~ley has arrived.
What brings him to the capital?
I inquired, sir, and they say he has been reinstated through the Emperor's favour.
Very well, then. Invite him in at once!
When did you go to court, sir?
The day before yesterday.
Yes, the Sovereign's kindness surpasses heaven. He issued several decrees.
What is your good news?
Recently pirates have been raiding the southeast coast, giving the people no rest, and the Duke of Anguo is being sent to wipe them out. Since our Sovereign knows that I am familiar with that locality, he has ordered me to pacify the people and to set off straight away. Yesterday I heard of the old laldy's passing, so to express my condolences I have brought incense to pay my respects at her shrine.
By going on this mission, sir, you will certainly relieve the Emperor's anxiety and bring peace to the people. You are bound to achieve great deeds. As I shall be unable to witness them, I can only wait far off for news of your triumph. The garrison commander there happens to be related to me; I hope you will think well of him when you meet.
What is your relationship, sir?
Who doesn't feel for his children?
That reminds me of a favour I'd like to ask of you. When His Majesty graciously summoned me to court, because my son is young and there is no one in charge at home I decided to bring my whole household here as well. But having to travel post-haste I came on ahead, leaving them to follow more slowly, and they have not yet arrived. I have orders to go straight to my post and dare not procrastinate. When my worthless son arrives, I shall certainly leave word for him to come and pay his respects to you, sir. I hope you will give him good advice, and if there is a chance to arrange a suitable match I would be most grateful if you would keep him in mind.
I'll see you tomorrow outside the city,
Why, he's the image of my Baoyu, except that he's in mourning!
Though we are close relatives, young gentlemen, we haven't met for so long that we don't recognize each other.
This is my elder brother She's son, my second nephew Lian.
This is my second son, Baoyu.
How extraordinary !
I heard at home that you had a son born with a piece of jade in his mouth, whose name was Baoyu. And I was amazed because he had the same name as my son. Later it seemed nothing unusual, so I thought no more about it. Now that I see him, though, they look exactly alike and bear themselves in the same way as well. This is most extraordinary!
My boy is one year younger.
Truly extraordinary!
Oh!
What nonsense you talk! Claiming that some manis your double and even asking us to look at him!
I'll tell you why I sent for you,
You can't go to school as long as you are in mourning, but while staying at home you must review those essays you studied before. I am fairly free at present, so I want you to write a few essays to show me a couple of days from now, to see what progress if any you've made recently.
I have told your brother Ruan and your nephew Lan to do some revision too. If your essays are poor, not even up to theirs, that will be disgraceful.
Yes sir,
Won't you stay?
We have been chanting sutras in Iron Threshold Temple,
That's why we've not come for some time to pay our respects. Today, after calling on Their ladyships, we want to see Miss Xichun too.
Where is your young lady?
You may well ask,
These days she won't eat a thing, just curls up on the kang.
That's a long story. When you see her, she'll probably tell you.
How are you?
When our family's hard up you don't come near us!
Amida Buddha!
Whether well or badly off you're still our patrons, not to say that our nunnery belongs to your family and the old lady was always so good to us. During her funeral we saw all the mistresses except you. It's because we missed you that we've come today especially to see you, miss.
There was some scandal there; so now your gatemen won't let them in,
Is it true, as we heard the other day, that sister Miaoyu of Green Lattice Nunnery ran off with someone too?
What nonsense! Whoever gossips like that should have her tongue cut off! She was kidnapped by bandits. Why spread such wicked rumours?
That crankiness of hers   was she putting on an act? Mind, we don't want to run her down to you, miss. She's not like us rough creatures who can only chant Buddhist canons or masses for others, and pray to come to a good end ourselves.
What do you mean by a good end?
Do you think me so weak-willed as to hanker after this wretched life? I made up my mind long ago to renounce the world, but just didn't know how to do it.
If Madam You can drive you away, can't I?
Don't be angry, miss, if we speak out of turn. But the mistresses would never let you, would they? It wouldn't be good if trouble came of this. It's you we're thinking of, miss.
Do you think your nunnery is the only one in the world?
Our young lady still wants to cut off her hair,
These last few days she's been unwell or else lamenting her fate. You'd better be careful, madam, that she doesn't make away with herself or we shall get the blame.
She doesn't want to be a nun!
Master Zhen is talking with the master in the study. His Lordship is so struck by him that he's sent for our Master Bao and Master Huan and wants Master Lan to have his meal there too. They'll come over after they've eaten.
Please excuse me,
My sons will keep you company. They can profit by your edifying conversation.
Don't let me keep you, sir,
I am the One hoping to learn from them.
I have long known of your fine reputation, but never had the chance to meet you in person. Now that I see you, sir, you truly seem an immortal descended from heaven!
We can study together, but we may not be travelling the same road,
Since we have the same name and look alike, we must be predestined to be kindred spirits. Now that I am beginning to know what is right, why shouldn't I pass my knowledge on to him? But as we've only just met, I don't know whether we are of the same mind. I mustn't be too hasty.
I have long known of your talents. You are one in ten thousand  so pure and refined. Being nothing but a vulgar fool myself, I am well aware that I disgrace the name which we both share.
He really does think as I do. But as both of us are men who can't compare with chaste girls, how can he attribute their qualities to me?
When I was young I was very cocksure,
You are too modest, sir,
Regarding literary talent and the ability to manage affairs, the only way to amass genuine knowledge is through experience and study. Though I am too young to know much about literature, when I carefully think over what I have read, a good reputation and honour rank a hundred times higher than wealth and luxury.
I have heard that you too are against all that is vulgar and have a superior understanding of life. I am very lucky to have met you today and would like to hear some of your transcendent views to cleanse my heart of vulgarity and enable me to see things in a new light. I didn't Lhink you would take me for such a fool as to fob me off with mundane talk of that kind.
He knows what I was like as a boy, so he suspects me of shamming. I had better made myself clear in the hope that then we may become close friends.
You have spoken very sincerely, and the fact is that when I was younger I did detest those old truisms too. As I grew older, though, and my father retired from official life, he couldn't be troubled to entertain guests and gave the task to me. Then I saw that all those mandarins had brought glory to their families, while of men of letters not one but spoke of loyalty and filial piety, concerned to win fame for their virtue and learning in order not to have lived in vain under such a sagacious reign or fall short of the expectations of their fathers and the tutors who brought them up. So gradually I rid myself of some of the foolish notions I had as a boy. Now I want to seek out teachers and friends to help enlighten me. I am fortunate to have met you who can certainly edify me. What I said just now was truly from my heart.
If the young genflemen have finished dinner, Master Zhen is invited over for a chat.
But how extraordinary!
It's not so strange their having the same name, but they are the image of each other! It's a good thing our Master Bao is in mourning, because if they were dressed alike there'd be no telling them apart.
What a pity Miss Lin is dead! Otherwise she might have been willing to marry this Zhen Baoyu.
The other day I heard from my husband that since our son is growing up he had begged your husband to take care of his marriage.
I'd like to act as go-between myself. Our house had four daughters, but three are either dead or already married, and the only one left, the younger sister of our nephew Zhen, is a few years too young; so it wouldn't be a good match. However, my elder daughter-in-law has two girl cousins, both nice~looking. One is already betrothed; the other would be just right for your honourable son. After a day or '~o I'll propose the match. The only snag is that her family is not so well-off nowadays.
Madam, don't stand on ceremony with us!
What have we to boast about? I'm afraid her family may think us too poor.
I only hope so,
In that case, I beg you to be the go-between.
Is that Zhen Baoyu really like you?
In looks, yes; but judging by the way he talks he doesn't have much understanding. He's just a place-seeker of the lowest sort.
There you go running people down again! How can you be sure of that?
He talked and talked but said not a word about seeking for truth, just holding forth on scholarship and the management of affairs, as well as loyalty and filial piety. Isn't such a person a toady? It's too bad that we look alike! The thought of him makes me wish I could change my looks!
The way you talk is really laughable! How can you change your looks? Besides, he was quite right. A man should establish himself and make a name. Who else is as soft and sentimental as you? Yet instead of admitting your weak character you call other people place-seekers.
What has our East Mansion done to be reduced to this?
If she insists on this course, she'll no longer be a daughter of our house,
As a girl, I can't stay with the family all my life,
If my marriage proved like Second Sister's, the master and mistress would have more cause to worry, and besides she died too in the end. So if you have any real affection for me, just count me as dead and let me become a nun to live a clean life. Especially as I don't have to leave the house. Green Lattice Nunnery is in our own grounds and I can practise my devotions there, while if I need anything you can see to it. Miaoyu's maids are still there too now. If you'll agree to this you'll be saving my life; if you don't, I have no option but to die and be done with it! If I can have my wish, when my brother comes back I shall explain to him that you didn't force me to do this; but if I die he's bound to think it was you who drove me to it.
How careless you all are! Why didn't you tell me that Baoyu was ill again?
This illness of his is chronic,
He gets better for a while, then has a relapse. He's been going to pay his respects to you every day, with nothing wrong with him, madam, and it's only today that his wits have wandered again. Madam Bao was just thinking of letting you know, but was afraid you might scold us for raising a false alarm.
Don't worry, madam. There's nothing wrong with me except that I feel rather gloomy.
This is an old trouble of yours. You should tell me as soon as you feel unwell, so that we can get a doctor to prescribe medicine. What an ado there'd be if you had another bad relapse like that time when you lost your jade!
The doctor refuses to prescribe any medicine. All we can do is prepare for the last rites.
More trouble, Master Lian!
What now?
A monk has come to our gate bringing the jade which Master Bao lost. He's asking for a reward of ten thousand taels.
Is that any reason to panic? Don't you know last time it was a fraud? Even if this is genuine, Baoyu is dying, so what good will the jade do him?
This monk has run amuck! He rushed in and no one could stop him.
Preposterous!
Throw him out, quick!
Master Bao is dying!
If you want him to live, give me the money!
Last time it was a monk who cured Baoyu; now another has turned up who may be able to save him. But even if it's the genuine jade, how are we to raise so much money?
Never mind. We can worry about that if Baoyu really recovers.
There are ladies inside; how can you charge in so wildly?
Stop crying, everyone inside! A monk is coming in!
 cried the monk, 
 Holding it up he added, 
Provided you save his life, you'll get the silver,
Hand it over then!
Don't worry. We can raise that much silver anyway,
Baoyu, Baoyu! Your precious jade has come back.
Where is it?
Ah!
At last!
Where is your monastery, and what is your name in religion? Where did you find this jade? How is it that the sight of it restored my son to life?
That I don't know,
All I want is ten thousand taels of silver.
You shall have it.
If you have it, hurry up and bring it. I must be going.
Please wait a little while I go inside to have a look.
Go on then. Don't be long about it.
The precious jade has come back.
Now that Baoyu has recovered,
We must just give the monk all we possess,
I can't believe this monk came for the money, did he?
I find it strange too, yet he keeps demanding silver.
Go and entertain him first, sir.
It's all right, I'm better now.
This really is a treasure! Just the sight of it cured him. How lucky it wasn't smashed that time before!
How could there be such a beauty in a wilderness like this?
She must be a goddess come down to earth.
Fortune for the Good, Calamity for the Licentious.
So here is my chance to find out about karma, past and future.
Apparently after coming all this way I'm still in the Garden,
But why is it so changed?
Enlightenment for the Infatuated.
When I was young, I dreamed that I came to a place like this. What a stroke of luck my coming here again today!
I have a faint recollection of this; it's too bad that I can't remember clearly.
 Could this refer to Cousin Lin?
pity
 were ominous. How to interpret this? Then he rebuked himsel{ 
Right! This prediction came true! It must mean Sister Yuanchun. If all the others were equally clear and I could copy them down to study them, I'd be able to find out the life-spans and fortunes of all these girls. When I went back I'd keep it secret, but knowing in advance would save me worrying so much for nothing.
You're playing the fool again. Your Cousin Lin wants you.
Good sister, wait for me!
Where did this oaf come from to spy on our fairy plant?
While looking for Sister Yuanyang I blundered into this fairy realm. Please pardon my presumption! May I ask what place this is? Why did Sister Yuanyang come here to tell me that Cousin Lin wants me? I beg you to enlighten me.
Who knows your cousins?
I am keeping watch over this fairy plant, and no mortals are allowed to loiter here.
Sister Fairy, if you are in charge of these fairy plants you must be the Goddess of Flowers. Do tell me what makes this plant unique!
That's a long story,
If you are in charge of this plant, Sister Fairy, there must be others in charge of those countless rare flowers. I won't trouble you to tell me who all of them are, but which fairy is in charge of the hibiscus?
That I can't tell you, but my mistress may know.
Who is your mistress, sister?
The Queen of Tear-stained Bamboos.
That's it!
The Queen of Bamboos, I'd have you know, is my cousin Lin Daiyu.
Nonsense! This is the celestial abode of goddesses. Even if you call your cousin the Queen of Bamboos she's no Ehuang or Nuying  how could my mistress be related to mortals? If you go on talking so wildly, I'll call guards to drive you out!
The attendant Shen Ying is invited to enter.
Isn't that him leaving now?
Please come back, Shen Ying!
Sister, why should you threaten me too?
All the men of your house are a bad lot, spoiling people's reputations and breaking up marriages! Now that you're here I'm not going to let you off!
Sister, stop him! Don't let him get away!
 Third Sister You told Baoyu, 
I've lost my way all on my own, and run into enemies. I want to go back but have none of you with me. Thank goodness you're here, Sister Qingwen! Do take me home at once.
Don't be so alarmed, sir,
You say your Queen wants to see me. Who is she?
This is no time to ask questions. You'll know when you meet.
No doubt about it, that's her face and her voice,
So why should she deny it? Well, I'm too confused to bother about that now. When I see her mistress I'll beg her to forgive me for anything I've done wrong. After all, women are so kindhearted, she's bound to excuse my presumption.
Is this the attendant Shen Ying?
Yes, it is. Go in quickly to announce him.
Wait here till you're sent for,
You may go in to pay your respects.
So here you are, cousin!
How I've been longing for you!
This attendant has no manners! Out you go, quick!
Thank goodness!
I'm home again! What flummoxed me so just now?
So this is where you are, sister. The people here have been plaguing me, and Cousin Lin refused to see me, I don't know why.
What have I done wrong to make them all cut me like this?
Where is this fellow from that he dares intrude into this fairy realm of bliss! Off you go!
I've lost my way,
Come to my rescue!
I have come on orders from the Imperial Consort to save you.
I remember you were the one to bring me here, but then you disappeared. I met many people dear to me, but they all ignored me and suddenly turned into demons. Was that a dream or did it really happen? Please explain this to me, father.
Did you pry into any secrets here?
Since he brought me to this fairy realm, he himself must be an immortal; so how can I hide anything from him? Besides, I want him to elucidate this.
Yes, I saw some registers.
There you are! After reading them can't you understand? All earthly ties of affection are bewitchments. Just bear what has happened carefully in mind, and I shall explain it to you later on.
Now go back!
Why, I must have died and come to life again!
That's it, that's it!
You luckless fool!
Trying to frighten us to death!
I wonder where that monk found the jade,
Judging by the way he came and left, he can't have found the jade. When it was lost before, it must have been this monk who took it away.
But it was here in our house,
How could he have taken it?
If he could bring it back, he could have taken it too.
That year when the jade was lost, Lin Zhixiao consulted a fortune-teller; and after Madam Bao married into our house we told her that the character he came up with was the shang1 meaning reward. Do you remember, madam?
Yes,
I just can't get over that monk!
When Baoyu fell ill that time, another monk came and said we had a treasure in our house -meaning this jade -which could cure him. Since he knew that, there must be more to this jade than meets the eye. Besides, your husband was born with it in his mouth. Have you ever heard of such a thing before? But who knows after all what this jade can do or what will become of him? It was this jade that made him fall ill, this jade that cured him, this jade that he was born with.... 
When the jade was lost, we asked Miaoyu to try the planchette and it wrote 'By the ancient pine at the foot of Blue Ridge Peak... entering my gate with a smile you will meet again.' I think 'entering the gate' is most significant. Buddhism is the gate to sainthood; I'm only afraid Second Cousin can't enter that gate.
There you go harping on Buddhism again!
Haven't you dropped your idea of becoming a nun?
The truth is, sister-in-law, I've been abstaining from meat for some time now.
Good gracious, child!
You mustn't have these notions.
By the dimly lit old shrine she sleeps alone.
Your decision is quite correct, sir,
Not being in office now you are free to see to this important business, whereas once you take off your mourning you will probably have other demands on your time. In my father's absence I couldn't presume to suggest this; but although your decision is excellent, this is going to cost several thousand taels and it's useless to expect the police to recover our stolen property.
I have made up my mind,
Nowadays we can't count on others help~ng us out,
As you are not in office, sir, and my father is away, we're in no position to raise a loan at present. All we can do is moitgage some properties.
How can we, when this mansion of ours was built by the government?
I don't mean this mansion we live in, but there are houses outside which can be mortgaged and redeemed again after you resume office, sir. If in future my father returns and is given a post, that will make it easier. My one regret is that you should have to exert yourself in this way at your advanced age, sir.
I'm simply doing my duty by the old lady. But you must be more prudent in running the household!
You can rest assured about that, sir. I shall certainly do my best, incompetent as I am. Besides, you will need to take quite a few servants south, and as that will leave fewer here I can cut down on expenses and get by. If you should find yourself short of funds on the' way, sir, since you will be passing Lai Shangrong's place you can enlist his help.
It's my own mother's funeral. Why should I asIC other families to help?
Yes, sir,
This is a year for the triennial examination,
Huan can't sit for it while in mourning for his mother. Lan is only a grandson, so after the mourning is over he's still entitled to take the examination and you must send Baoyu there too with his nephew. If he is a successful candidate, it will help to atone for our faults.
How unfeeling Baoyu is!
When he saw Miss Lin's coffin taken south he showed no sadness, shed not a tear, and instead of consoling me when I sobbed he actually laughed at me. So all this heartless fellow's honeyed talk before was to fool us! It's a good thing I didn't take him seriously the other night, or I'd have been taken in by him again. One thing I can't make out, though, is his coolness towards Xiren nowadays as well. Madam Bao has never liked too much show of feeling, but don't Sheyue and the rest resent his behaviour? What fools most of us girls must be to have cared so much for him all that time - what can come of it in the end?
Are you crying for Miss Lin again? I see now that it's no good basing your opinion of somebody on hearsay. Because we'd always heard how good Master Bao was to girls, my mother tried time and again to get me into his service; and since coming here I've nursed him devotedly each time he was ill, yet now that he's better he hasn't a single kind word for me - he doesn't even so much as look at me!
Bah, you little slut!
How do you want Baoyu to treat you? A young girl should have some shame! When he shows so little interest in all those who belong to his household by rights, what time has he to waste on you?
Tell me, what's the relationship between you and Baoyu?
That monk is back again. He wants ten thousand taels of silver! The mistress is worried and wanted Master Lian to talk to him, but master Lian isn't at home! That monk is ranting crazily outside. The mistress asks Madam Bao to go and discuss what to do.
Where is my master?
The mistress has sent me,
to invite this holy man in.
Excuse my tardiness in welcoming you, master.
I don't want you to entertain me,
Just hand over the silver and I'll be off.
The ancients said, 'One who has attained the Way makes no show of it; one who makes a show of it has not attained the Way.' I mustn't let slip this chance, but agree to give him the reward so as to sound him out.
Please have patience, master, and sit down to wait while my mother gets it ready. May I ask if you are from the Illusory Land of Great Void?
What 'illusory land'? Whence I came, thither shall I depart. I'm here to return you your jade. Can you tell me where it comes from?
You don't even know your own origin yet question me!
You don't need any silver,
I'll returri you the jade.
And so you should!
The mistress said it was very good of you to entertain the monk, and she means to give him some silver,
What brings you back?
Not on any account!
This jade is your life. If he takes it away your illness will come back!
Not any more. Now I'm in my right mind again, what do I need the jade for?
There's nothing we need talk about.
Last time you lost the jade it nearly cost me my life! You've just got it back and if he takes it away that will be the death of us both! You can only give it back over my dead body!
Whether you die or not I must give it back,
Tell the mistress, quick!
Master Bao wants to give his jade back to the monk.
So you're hanging on to this jade for dear life!
Baoyu!
You've gone crazy again!
Why all this fuss? Why upset the mistress for no reason at all? I thought it unreasonable of the monk to insist on ten thousand taels, not one tael less; so in a pique I came back meaning to return him the jade, saying that it was a fake and we didn't want it. If he saw that we didn't value it, he'd be willing to accept whatever we offered.
I thought you really meant to give it back,
All right then, but why didn't you tell them clearly? Why make them raise such a rumpus?
If that's the case, well and good. If you really gave the jade back, that monk is so odd that he could cause fresh trouble for our family and that would never do. As for the reward, you can raise it by selling my jewels.
Yes,
Let's do that.
There's no need for you to go out,
Her Ladyship and I will give him the money.
I don't mind not giving him the jade,
but I must see him once more.
Let go of him. He can go if he wants to.
You people think more of the jade than you do of me! Now that you're not stopping me, suppose I go off with the monk and leave you the jade?
Tell the servants outside to keep an eye on Master Bao; he's not in his right mind.
Master Bao is really rather crazed. The pages outside say he was at a loss because you wouldn't let him have the jade. Now he's gone out and begged the monk to take him with him.
He said he wants the jade, not it's owner,
Doesn't he want the money then?
I didn't hear anything about that, madam. Later the monk and Master Bao were laughing and chatting together about many things, but the pages couldn't understand a word.
Stupid creatures!
Even if they don't understand, they can memorize it.
Though you didn't understand the talk between the monk and Master Bao, can't you repeat it to me?
All we caught were phrases like 'the Great Waste Mountain,' 'Blue Ridge Peak,' 'the Land of Great Void' and 'severing mortal entanglements', 
Fine, fine!
What is this crazy talk?
I'm in earnest,
yet you call me crazy! That monk and I knew each other before and he simply wished to see me. He never really wanted a reward but was just doing a good deed. After he'd explained that, he vanished. Isn't that fine?
The monk has really gone,
So he was a good monk after all! Did you ask where he lives?
The gateman said he told Master Bao, so he knows.
Wake up!
Stop dreaming! The master and the mistress dote on you, and the master told you to study hard to advance yourself.
What I have in mind will advance us all, won't it? Don't you know the saying. 'When one son renounces the world, seven of his ancestors will go to heaven'?
What's to become of us? First Xichun insists on renouncing the world, and now here's another. How can I live on like this?
I was joking, madam. Don't take it seriously.
Is this ajoking matter?
Master Lian is back, quite unlike his usual self. He hopes you'll go back, madam, so that he can report something to you.
Tell him to come in here,
He's known his sister-in-law since they were children, so he doesn't have to avoid her.
I have just had word from my father that he's seriously ill. He's sent for me. Any delay and I may never see him again!
What illness did he say he had?
My own household is no problem. Because Qiutong kept weeping and wailing that she didn't want to stay. I told her family to fetch her back and that has saved Pinger a good deal of vexation. Though Qiaojie has no one to look after her, Pinger is kind to her and she~s an intelligent gid though even more wilful than her mother, madam, so I hope you will discipline her from time to time.
The child has her grandmother here,
Why should you entrust her to me?
 he muttered, 
Get up quickly!
We are all one family, of course I'll help. Only one thing: the child is growing up, and if anything should happen to your father her marriage would be delayed. If some suitable family makes a proposal, should we wait for your return or let her grandmother decide what to do?
Since Your Lady ships are at home, naturally you can decide without waiting for me.
We have enough servants here for the house,
But there's not one in the Garden since Bao Yong went back to his master. And Master Xue Ke has vacated that compound where Aunt Xue lived to move to their own house. It's not good having no caretakers for all those empty lodges in the Garden, so I hope you'll send people from time to time to keep an eye on them. Green Lattice Nunnery belongs to us too, and since Miaoyu's disappearance the nuns who attended her dare not take charge and want us to assign someone to see to things there.
• ~ • • ' ~	
We can't set our own house in order, so how can we handle other people's affairs? But mind you don't mention this to Xichun, or she'll plague us again to let her be a nun. How can a family like ours allow one of our daughters to become a nun?
If you hadn't raised this, madam, I wouldn't have ventured to. But after all Cousin Xichun belongs to the East Mansion, and because she has no parents, her elder brother's away and she's hardly on speaking terms with her sister-in-law, I hear that she's often threatened to take her own life. Since her mind is made up, if we thwart her and she really kills hersel{ won't that be worse than entering a nunnery?
This business is really too much for me. I can't make the decision; that's up to her sister-in-law.
Don't ask for trouble. Uncle Bao was born under an unlucky star. One year I proposed an excellent match for him: the girl's father was a provincial tax-collector, the family owned several pawnshops, and she herself was prettier than a fairy. I went to the trouble of writing him the full particulars, but he wasn't cut out for such luck.
He'd already fallen for Aunt Bao! And didn't you hear too   everyone must know it   that he made Miss Lin die of a broken heart? Oh well, each one's romance is fated by heaven. Yet he was annoyed with me because of this and since then has cold-shouldered me. He must have imagined I wanted to make him indebted to me.
The racket you make is too vulgar,
I suggest we recite some verses while we drink.
All right,
Start with the word 'moon', 
I'll recite a line first, and we'll count round to see who has to drink when I reach the word 'moon.' Then he must recite another line on my orders and, if he fails, must drink three big cups as a forfeit.
Recite a line ending with 'oleander,' 
Silently the cold dew wets the oleander.
What's the other line?
Heavenly fragrance wafts down from the clouds.
How deadly dull!
Right!
I can't sing. I'll tell you a joke instead.
If it doesn't make us laugh,
you must pay the forfeit.
Listen, gentlemen,
'Nonsense!' said Yuandi. 'As the local deity, you're responsible for any thefts; yet instead of catching the robbers you're accusing my officers of negligence!
He examined it and it was certainly solid. So why were things still disappearing? However, when he felt it he exclaimed, 'I thought it was a real wall, but this is just a fake wall'! 
Fine, Foolish Uncle!
Why should you abuse me without any provocation? Hurry up and drink a big cup as punishment.
People should be more considerate,
Xifeng was so ruthless when she had the old lady's backing that now she's died sonless, leaving only one daughter. She's suffering for her sins!
Let's drink! Why gossip about other people?
How old is this daughter of hers? What does she look like?
She's very good-looking,
and nearly fourteen already.
It's too bad she was born into such a rich family,
 Asked what she meant she explained, 
What ajolly party you gentlemen are having!
Why are you so late? We've been waiting for you for some time.
This morning we were worried by a rumour about more trouble for our family. We hurried off to investigate; but it's not true.
If it has nothing to do with us, why didn't you come earlier?
Though we're not directly concerned there is a connection. You know who's in trouble? Mr. Jia Yucun. This morning we went there and saw him in chains and were told he was to be taken to court for trial. Knowing what a frequent visitor he was here, we were afraid our house might be involved and therefore went to make inquiries.
That was thoughtful of you, brothers,
Yes, you were right to find out. Sit down and drink a cup, then tell us about it.
This Jia Yucun is an able gentleman and clever climber, who holds quite a high post but is too grasping; so several charges of extorting money from his subordinates have been brought against him. Our most sagacious, benevolent Emperor is angered by nothing so much as reports of venal officials who abuse their power to oppress good citizens; he therefore issued a decree for his arrest and trial. If he is found guilty he will be in trouble; if the charges prove groundless, those who impeached him will suffer. This is a really good reign, if only we had the luck to be officials!
Your elder brother's in luck,
Isn't he sitting pretty as a magistrate?
I'm only afraid he may not remain a magistrate for long, the way he's carrying on,
Does he fleece people too?
What other news did you hear?
Nothing much,
Only that a number of brigands captured at the coast have been tried, and during their interrogation they revealed the whereabouts of many more, some of them lying low here in town and looking out for a chance to break into more houses. But now all our high officials are good administrators and strategists, exerting themselves to repay the Emperor's favour, so wherever they go they quickly wipe out brigands.
You spoke of some brigands in town. Have they found out who robbed our family?
Wasn't Miaoyu in our Green Lattice Nunnery kidnapped? Could she be the girl who was killed?
Yes, it must be her!
How do you know?
That creature Miaoyu was disgusting, the airs she gave herself! She was all smiles to Baoyu, yet never cast so much as a glance at me. If it turns out to be her I'll be only too glad!
Women are being kidnapped all the time. This doesn't have to be her.
There's some indication that it is,
The other day we heard that her serving-woman dreamed that she saw Miaoyu murdered.
A dream doesn't count!
Never mind about her dream,
Let's have supper now. We must play for high stakes tonight.
Though Their Ladyships have sent for us we can't   and indeed we shouldn't   make any decisions. We'll have to try to talk her round and, failing that, leave it to them to decide. After discussing it we can write to report this to Uncle Lian so that we won't be held responsible.
All right,
I'll take the blame. We'll just say that I couldn't stand my young sister-in-law and forced her to become a nun. Of course we mustn't let news of this get out. Here at home, with Their Ladyships as witnesses, let me take the responsibility. Qiang will have to write to Master Zhen and your Uncle Lian.
If you're set on worshipping Buddha,
it must be predestined and we really can't stop you. It doesn't seem proper, though, for a girT from a family like ours to become a nun. Now your sister-in-law has agreed to it and your piety is commendable, but I've one condition to make: Don't shave your head. So long as you're sincere, what does your hair matter? Just think of Miaoyu   she became a nun with long hair  but who knows what change of heart she had to come to such a bad end! Since you're set on this, we'll count your present quarters as your convent. We'lT also have to question all your maids, and if some are willing to stay with you we won't find husbands for them; for the rest we'll make other arrangements.
Which of you want to join in your young lady's devotions?
Whichever of us you choose, madam,
How sublime!
Just now you asked who would stay with Miss Xichun,
Whom do you have in mind, madam?
How can I choose anyone against her will?
If anyone wants to, she can volunteer.
 said Zijuan. 
It wasn't my place to propose this,
But as you assigned Zijuan to my service, madam, I'm emboldened to ask you to agree so that she can realize her aspirations.
When Tanchun married you nearly cried your heart out; yet now that Xichun wants to become a nun, instead of trying to dissuade her you approve. What do you mean by this? I can't understand you.
You've already agreed to her becoming a nun, and I assume her mind's made up on the subject. If that's the case, there's something I'd like to tell you; but if she hasn't decided yet I dare not speak out of turn.
How ridiculous you are, cousin,
If I had't made up my mind, how could I have won round the mistresses? I agree with what Zijuan just said. If you let me have my way I shall count it my good fortune. Otherwise I can always die  I'm not afraid! So just say what you have in mind.
Why pester us with your poems when we're all so upset?
It's not my poem, but one I read somewhere. Listen.
 they conceded. 
Oh dear! He's bewitched.
Tell me truly, Baoyu, where you saw this poem?
Don't ask me the place, madam.
I thought at first you were joking, but then you came out with this poem. All right, I under-stand. What do you expect me to do? I shall simply have to let you do as you choose; but just wait till I'm dead before you each go your own way!
What does my consent count for?
When someone's made up her mind there's no stopping her. As Baoyu said, this was fated.
Amida Buddha! Fine!
You've stolen a march on rue!
I want to be a nun with Miss Xichun too.
 Baoyu told her gently. 
Do you mean I'm going to die?
Take this back at once with his letter, and tell him not to trouble.
You're a grown man, yet for lack of guts you let go a chance to make money, and instead come begging from a pauper like me!
That's ridiculous talk, Third Uncle,
Being on the spree together all the time, what chance have we to make money?
Didn't someone say the other day that a prince in a border province wants to buy a concubine? Why not discuss this with Uncle Wang and marry Qiaojie off?
Don't take offence, uncle,
But if that prince were to buy her, how could he keep on good terms with our family?
What are you two plolling behind my back?
This is a fine idea! There's money in it! I'm only afraid you won't be able to pull it off. If you have the nerve to, as her maternal uncle I can authorize it. If Huan will propose it to Lady Xing I'll have a word with Uncle Xing; then if the other mistresses ask about it you can speak up in favour and it should go through.
That prince is most distinguished. If we agree to this match, even though she's not his principal wife, once she goes to his palace my brother-in-law's rank is bound to be restored and you'll be in a good position again.
We've kept this secret from most of the family, just telling them that His Highness is proposing marriage. But once it's settled, as her grandmother approves and the girl's own uncle is the guarantor, we have nothing to fear.
My grand-daughter has reached marriageable age,
With Lian away the decision is up to me. Besides, her own grand-uncle and maternal uncle have made inquiries, and they must surely know the facts of the case better than other people. So I'm quite willing. If things turn out badly, Lian and I won't hold anyone else to blame.
 said Baoyu. 
You can't open your mouth without raving!
Once the matter is fixed they'll come and take her away. And then, as Pinger says, won't your cousin Lian hold me to blame? Not to say that she's my own grand-niece, even if she were some distant relative we'd want something better for her. We arranged that match between Miss Xing and your cousin Xue Ke, and isn't it good the way they're living happily together? Then there's Baoqin who's made an excellent marriage into the Mei family, which by all accounts is very comfortably off. As for Xiangyun's marriage, that was her uncle's idea and all went well to start with, but now her husband's died of consumption and she's made up her mind never to marry again, poor thing. How can I have the heart to let Qiaojie marry into the wrong family?
Qiaojie's whole future is in your hands, madam! If we trust them, not only will the girl have a wretched life, but how are we to account for it to Master Lian when he comes home?
You're a sensible girl,
Get up and listen to me. The Elder Mistress, after all, is Qiaojie's grandmother. If she decides on this, how am I to stop her?
It doesn't matter, if only you're clear-headed.
A little rest will set me right.
This morning a letter came from my grandfather, which the servants at the gate brought in to my mother. She wanted to bring it to you, but then my grand-aunt arrived, so she told me to deliver it instead, madam. My mother will be coming presently and so will my grand-aunt, she says.
What has your grand-aunt come for?
I don't know,
I only heard her mention some letter from my aunt Li Qi's future in-laws.
Take this to show your Uncle Bao, then give it back to your mother.
Have you read the master's letter, madam?
Yes, I have.
Tanchun hasn't been back once in all these years since her marriage. Now that she's coming to the capital you can feel much easier in your mind, madam.
Yes,
I had palpitations of the heart just now; but this news has made me feel better. I only wonder when she will arrive.
Did you read the letter? It's nearly time for the examination and your grandfather has it very much on his mind. You must take his letter to show Uncle Bao.
They haven't passed the first degree; how can they sit for the provincial examination?
When his grandfather was Grain Commissioner he bought him and Baoyu the rank of Imperial College Student.
Autumn Water
Re takes that talk about 'leaving the world of men' seriously,
No good will come of it in the long run.
What's on your mind now?
Since we are man and wife, you're the one I have to rely on all my life; this isn't a question of my personal feelings. Of course wealth and honour are 'transient as drifting clouds' but the sages of old set store by moral character and a firm foundation....
So you talk about 'moral character and a firm foundation' and the 'sages of old'. Don't you know that one ancient sage taught that we 'should not lose the heart of a child?' What's special about a child? Simply this: it has no knowledge, no judgement, no greed and no taboos. From our birth we sink into the quagmire of greed, anger, infatuation and love; and how can we escape from earthly entanglements? I've only just realized that mortal men are like water weeds drifting together and then apart again. Though the ancients spoke of this, no one seems to have awakened to the fact. If you want to talk about character and foundation, tell me who has achieved the supreme primeval state?
Since you speak of the heart of a child,
the sages of old took it to mean loyalty and filial piety, not leaving the world and giving up all human relationships. The constant concern of Yao and Shun, Yu and Tang, the Duke of Zhou and Confucius was to save the people and benefit the world; so what they meant by the heart of a child was simply love for humanity. What would the world come to if everyone took your advice and disregarded all natural relationships?
But Yao and Shun didn't force Chao Fu and Xu You1 to take up office, nor did King Wu and the Duke of Zhou force Bo Yi and Shu Qi2 to serve them.
Since you've run out of arguments, my advice to you is to take a grip on yourself and study hard; because if you can pass the triennial examination, even if you stop at that, you'll be paying back your debt of gratitude for your sovereign's favour and your ancestor's virtue.
Actually it isn't difficult to pass. And what you said about stopping there and repaying my debt is not far wide of the mark.
Of course, we don't understand those old sages whom Madam Bao was talking about. I just feel that those of us who've been hard at it since we were small serving Master Bao, and told off ever so often  though of course that was only right -all hope he will show more consideration for us. Besides, it's for your sake that Madam Bao has been such a dutiful daughter-in-law; so even if you haven't much family feeling you shouldn't let her down. All those legends about gods and spirits are lies - who ever saw an immortal come down to earth? Yet when that monk from goodness knQws where talked some nonsense to you, you believed it! How can someone with book-learning like you, Master Bao, take his advice more seriously than your parents'?
Is Uncle Bao in?
Come in!
So Tanchun's coming back?
According to grandfather, she must be,
Did you read the end of the letter, uncle, where grandfather urges us to study hard? Have you written any compositions these days?
Yes, I must write a few to keep my hand in, so that I can wangle a pass.
No, you should do all right.
Judging by Baoyu's present behaviour,
he appears to have seen reason. Yet just now he stressed that this was where he would stop   what did he mean by that?
Merciful Buddha!
It's quite right and proper to stop reading those, but why have them taken away?
It's just dawned on me that these books count for nothing. I'm going to have them burnt to make a clean sweep!
Buddha's nature
fairy barque
Success or failure in examinations is fated, regardless of how soon or late one starts to study. We can only hope that from now on he'll stick to the right path and never be influenced again by those evil spirits!
Of course it's good that he's seen the light at last; but I'm afraid he may revert to his bad old ways and start fooling about with girls.
Exactly, madam. After Master Bao put his trust in that monk he cooled off towards the girls here; now that he's lost faith in him, his old trouble may very well flare up again. I don't think he ever cared much for you or me, madam. Now Zijuan's gone, leaving just four senior maids and the only vamp among them is Wuer. They say her mother has asked Their Ladyships to let her go home to get married; however, for the time being she's still here. Sheyue and Qiuwen are all right, but in the old days Master Bao used to fool about with them too; soit looks as if Yinger is the only one in whom he's shown no interest, and she's steady girl. I suggest that pouring his tea and fetching his water can be left to her, with some younger girls to help her. What do you think of that, madam?
This is what I've been worrying about. Your idea's a good one.
Her Ladyship told me to bring you this, Master Bao,
It's a sacrifice to the old lady.
Put it down there.
Her Ladyship's praising you.
Her Ladyship says, now you're working hard and will soon pass the examination; and next year you'll get your third degree and an official post, living up to your parents' hopes!
If you really pass, Master Bao, Madam Bao will be in luck! Remember that year in the Garden, when you told me to make you a plum-blossom net? You said he'd be a lucky man, whoever got the pair of us, mistress and maid. Now you're the one in luck.
You say I'm in luck and your mistress too. How about you?
What luck is there for the likes of me  bondmaids for life?
If you can really remain a bondmaid all your life, you'll be luckier than us,
You silly girl!
I've something to tell you.
You silly girl!
I've something to tell you. Since your young mistress is in luck, of course you as her maid will be lucky too, which is more than your sister Xiren can count on. You must work hard in future, so that when your mistress prospers she may repay you for your faithful service.
I understand. Madam Bao is expecting me. When you're ready to taste the sweetmeats just send a maid to call me.
This is your first examination,
The first time in all these years that you've ever left me. Even when I wasn't keeping an eye on you, you were surrounded by maids and serving-women, never sleeping for a single night alone. Today, entering for the examination, you're going to be entirely on your own, so you'll have to take care of yourselves! Come out as soon as you've finished your compositions to find our family servants, then come straight back to set the minds of your mothers and wife at rest.
I can never repay the mother who gave birth to me. But I shall do as well as I can in the examination, to obtain a good ju-ren degree and make you happy, madam. Then I shall have done my duty as a son and atoned for all my faults.
It's good, of course, for you to feel that way,
If only the old lady could have lived to see you now!
Even if the old lady can't see me, she'll know and be pleased,
So it's all the same whether she sees me or not. We're separated in form only, not in spirit.
Madam, why grieve over such a happy occasion? Especially as Brother Baoyu has recently been so sensible and dutiful, studying hard as well. When he and his nephew have taken the examination and written some good comPositions, they'll come straight back to show what they wrote to our seniors, after which we can wait for news of their success.
Don't worry, sister-in-law. We're both of us going to pass. Later on, your Lan is going to do so well that you'll wear the costume of a high-ranking lady.
Provided you have a good son to continue our ancestors' line,
even though my brother hasn't lived to see it, it means he has done his duty.
I'm going now, cousin. Take good care of the mistress and wait for my good news!
So you're hurrying me? I know it's time to be off.
Send word for me to xichun and Zijuan,
Well, all I want to say is I shall be seeing them again.
People are waiting outside,
If you delay any longer you'll be late.
I'm going now! No more ado! This is the end!
Go quickly.
Now you're talking like a sensible boy! Qiaojie's marriage is something I should decide; but your cousin Lian is a fool and instead of leaving it to me, the child's own grandmother, he's entrusted it to other people!
That family says this branch of our house is the only one they recognize,
Now that it's settled, they'll be sending you rich presents, madam; and once your grand-daughter's married to a prince, the Elder Master will get a high post for sure. It's not my place to speak ill of our mistress, but after one of her daughters was made an Imperial Consort she became too overbearing! I hope that in future Qiaojie won't be so heartless. I must make her promise that.
Yes, you should talk to her to let her know whom she has to thank for this.Why, even if her father were at home, he wouldn't be able to find her a better husband. It's only that silly Pinger who thinks this match no good and says your mistress is against it too. I suppose she begrudges us this satisfaction. If we put this off till your cousin Lian comes back, he maY listen to them and it may fall through.
The other side has agreed. They're just waiting for you to send her horoscope, madam. According to the rules of the prince's house they'll fetch her three days after receiving it. There's one thing, though, which may not please you: They say since it's forbidden to marry the granddaughter of a cashiered official, they can only carry her over quietly and the celebration will have to wait till after our Elder Master is pardoned and back in office.
Why should I object to that? It's only correct.
In that case you can send the horoscope, madam.
Don't be a fool! We've only women at home. You must tell Qiang to write it.
Steady on, miss! The Elder Mistress is your grandmother, so in your father's absence she's the one who has the say. Besides, your uncle is acting as guarantor, and they're in cahoots, so how can you override them? I'm only a servant, what I say doesn't count. We must think of some way out but on no account act rashly!
You'd better be quick about it,
Otherwise a sedan-chair will be coming to fetch her!
It's no use crying, miss. We're not in touch with your father, and judging by what they said....
The young lady's marriage is fixed! Pinger is to get together all the things she'll be needing. Her dowry can wait till Master Lian comes back.
Don't worry, child,
Your grandmother gave me a good ticking-off because I spoke up for you; so I can't see myself talking her round. We shall have to agree but put it off while we send a servant posthaste to tell your father.
You haven't heard the latest, madam,
This morning Master Huan told Lady Xing it's the rule of the prince's house to fetch the girl there within three days of receiving her horoscope. She's already asked Master Yun to write it out; so how can we wait for Master Lian?
He's nowhere to be found either.
The servants at the back gate say that Granny Liu's here again.
In a family crisis like this we've no time to entertain visitors,
Put her off with some excuse.
Better invite her in, madam. As Qiaojie's godmother she should be told about this.
What's wrong? You must have been grieving for Madam Lian again.
Let's not beat about the bush. Since you're her godmother you ought to know this.
A clever young lady like you must surely have listened to durm-ballads? They describe plenty of ways and means. It's not hard to find a way out.
What way out have you, granny?
Do tell us quickly.
It's very simple. Don't say a word to a soul; just up and leave, and that's that.
That's easier said than done. A young lady frorn a house like ours, where's she to go?
If you want to spirit her away and don't mind her coming to my village, I~ll hide the young lady. I'll get my son-in-law to find a messenger, and she can write a letter in her own hand for him to take to her father, so that he comes back at once. How about that?
What if the Elder Mistress finds out?
Do they know that I'm here?
Then let's fix a time, and I'll get my son-in-law to come with a carriage to fetch her.
That would take too long,
Just wait here a moment.
It's the only way!
I wouldn't dare propose this to anyone else. You can pretend to be in the dark, madam, and later ask the Elder Mistress where Qiaojie has gone. We'll send to get Master Lian to hurry back.
Please come to my rescue, madam! When my father comes home he's bound to be grateful to you!
That's settled then,
You'd better go back, madam. We'll just ask you to send someone to look after our house.
Keep it hushed up!
And mind you both take clothes and bedding with you.
 replied Pinger. 
All right. Go and get ready quickly. I'll see to things here.
Don't sneak out!
If anybody sees you, just say that the Elder Mistress has ordered a carriage to take Granny Liu home.
How dangerous!
We must hurry up and stop Yun from going there.
But I can't find Huan.
You had better pretend to know nothing about this, madam, while I find someone to inform Lady Xing.
Out of the question! This is strictly forbidden: it would have been a fiasco! Since I have already paid homage at court I must choose a day now to return to my post. If anyone comes to broach this again, send him packing!
His Highness has given orders: Anyone who tries to pass off a daughter of the Jia family as a common citizen must be arrested and tried! In this reign of peace who dares do such a thing?
Is it settled?
We would never have dared, but Grand-Uncle Xing and Uncle Wang proposed this match for Qiaojie, as we reported to Your Lady ships. The Elder Mistress was willing, and told me to write out the horoscope. But that family has tumed her down, so how did we hound her to death?
Huan told the Elder Mistress she'd be fetched away in three days,
 Lady Xing being now reduced to tearful silence, Lady Wang swore at Jia Huan, 
Well, let's stop blaming each other. They can't really have killed themselves. Pinger must have hidden her in some relative's house.
Where is your Uncle Bao?
Uncle Bao has disappeared!
Stupid creature! You were with him, how could you lose him?
In the hostel we ate and slept in the same place,
Child, your uncle has disappeared,
We can't have you getting lost too. Go and rest now, there's a good boy!
Did Cousin Baoyu take his jade with him?
Of course, he always wore it,
Sometimes when I provoked him he lost his temper,
But he always had the grace to make it up later, to say nothing of his warm-hearted consideration. When I provoked him too much, he swore he'd become a monk. For all we know he may have kept his word!
Such good news, madam!
Where did they find him? Bring him in at once!
He's come seventh of the successful candidates.
But where is he?
Who came seventh?
Master Bao,
Master Lan has passed too!
Since Baoyu was fated to pass, he's bound to turn up. Besides, now as a successful candidate, he's too well-known to remain lost.
Now that Master Bao has passed, we're certain to find him!
The proverb says: 'A successful candidate's fame spreads throughout the world.' Wherever he goes now, people will know about him and will have to send him back.
That young fellow has no manners, yet he talks sense.
How could a grown man like him get lost? I suspect he's seen through the ways of the world and taken monastic vows, in which case it will be difficult to find him.
Yes, since ancient times many men have given up rank and wealth to achieve Buddhahood and become immortals.
If he's so unfilial as to abandon his parents, how can he become a Buddha?
People shouldn't have anything unique about them,
We all thought it a good thing Brother Baoyu being born with that jade; but now it seems all this trouble stems from it. Don't be angry, madam, at what I'm going to say, but if he doesn't turn up in the next few days then there must be some reason, and you'd better consider him as never having been born. If there really is some mystery about him and he becomes a Buddha, this must be owing to your virtue in some previous existence.
Is either of these Jias from Jinling from the same family as the late Imperial Consort?
On the Successful Conclusion of the Compaign Against Brigands at the Coast
the whole empire is at peace and the people are content.
Wonderful news, madam!
Country folk like us aren't good enough for such a young lady from a noble house.
I know what's in your mind,
Let me propose the match.
Don't make fun of me!
Such grand people would never agree to marry her to a family like ours.
We'll see about that,
So you're back, Second Master,
Congratulations! Is the Elder Master better?
He is,
Thanks to the Imperial favour, he will be home very soon. Whose are all these carriages?
Imperial envoys have been sent to order us to fetch back the family property.
What a lot we owe you, granny! If not for the way you fixed things, our young lady wouldn't be so happily placed today.
Master Lian is extremely grateful and told me, as soon as I reached home, to escort the young lady back. He rewarded me too with several taels of silver.
Come tomorrow to the Imperial Treasury to receive your bounty. The Ning Mansion is yours to live in again.
Stupid bastards!
When I was away you swindled us, forcing my daughter to flee, and now that they're bringing her back you bar the way! What grudge have you got against me?
After you left, sir, some of us fell ill, some had to ask for leave. Master Huan, Master Qiang and Master Yun were in charge  we had nothing to do with this.
You scoundrels!
When I'm through with my business I'll deal with you. Let those carts in at once!
Qiaojie is back safe and sound, all thanks to you, madam!
I'll leave Cousin Huan out of this, but Yun is a rascal who made trouble before when left in charge of the house. Now I've only been away a couple of months, yet look at the chaos here! A fellow like this, I suggest we drive him away and have no more to do with him!
That wretch Wang Ren is just as bad,
Don't worry, madam. I know how to deal with them.
But who could have sent Pinger word?
When you heard their proposal, you naturally thought it a good one,
How were you to know what they were up to outside?
The Emperor has shown us such favour that now our family should prosper again. I'm sure Master Bao will come back.
Xiren is dying!
Here's your medicine. Drink it up, sister.
 She could not resolve this dilemma until recalling her dream in which it had been implied that she and Baoyu were destined to part she decided, 
Is it Baoyu?
If you are Baoyu, what are you doing here, and in this costume?
Your worldly obligations have been fulfilled,
Why delay your departure?
Did you see those three men just now?
Yes, sir. As you were running after them I came too. But then I lost sight of those three.
You don't understand,
If Master Bao was really a Buddhist saint, he shouldn't have become ajuren,
Why take the official examination then leave?
You don't understand that all the stars in the heavens, the saints in the mountains and the spirits in caves have each their own different nature. Baoyu never showed any inclination to study, yet he'd only to glance at a book to master it. By temperament, too, he was different from other people.
If I ever run amuck again,
may I be killed and disembowelled!
Just make up your mind to it instead of raving. Why must you swear such a blood-curdling oath?
Quite right and proper,
I shall go on serving the master as his maid. There's no need to raise my status.
If he'd become an official then had the misfortune to get into trouble and ruin the family, that would have been worse. It's better to have produced a Bodhisattva, thanks to the virtue of our master and mistress. In fact, Lord Jing of the East Mansion practised alchemy for more than ten years yet never became an immortal. It's harder still to become a Bodhisattva! If you look at it this way, madam, you'll feel better.
I don't blame Baoyu for deserting me, it's my daughter-in-law's cruel fate that upsets me most. When they'd only just been married a couple of years, how heartless it was of him to abandon her!
He kept me on tenterhooks all those years, till he got married and passed the examination and I was pleased to hear that Baochai was pregnant. To think it should end like this! If I'd known, I wouldn't have found him a wife or ruined your daughter's life!
This was their fate,
B aochai was always a quiet, unassuming child with simple tastes; that's why this has happened to her. It seems that everyone's lot in life is predestined! Though she wept so bitterly, she retained all her dignity and even tried to console me   she's really one in a thousand. What a pity, though, that a boy like Baoyu lost out on his share of good fortune in this dusty world!
The other maids are easily disposed of: the older ones can be married off and the younger ones kept here to wait on Baochai. But what's to be done about Xiren?
I wouldn't deserve such a good daughter-in-law if I hadn't done some good deeds!
Xiren's only the shadow of her old self, what with pining for Baoyu,
The proper wife should stay at home as a widow, and sometimes a concubine wants to do the same; but in Xiren's case, her relationship with Baoyu was never made public.
Exactly,
That's an excellent idea. Otherwise, if I let the master dispose of her off-hand wouldn't that be the ruin of her?
It's good of you to talk like this to a serving-maid, madam,
I should never dream of disobeying the mistress.
This was fated. From now on those of us outside will have to manage the family affairs with your assistance inside, on no account letting things slide as we did before. The different households can see to their own affairs; there is no need for a general manager. You can decide, as you think right, on everything done in our family's inner apartments.
The Ning Mansion has been cleaned up, and with your permission we shall move over now. Sister Xichun can have Green Lattice Nunnery in the Garden for her devotions.
That's for the Elder Master and Elder Mistress to decide. We shouldn't despise country people, providing they are honest folk and their son is studious and seems promising. Not all the officials at court are city bred, are they?
No, sir,
But as my father is growing old and suffers from chronic asthma, he hopes to live quietly for a few years, leaving you in overall charge.
I only wish I could live as a recluse in the country myself,
But I haven't yet repaid our Sovereign's great kindness.
You can agree to it. Come back in a few days' time to fetch your sister-in-law.
Now the mistress is set upon this,
If I ask to stay they'll say I have no sense of shame; yet I really don't want to leave here!
If I died here that would be a poor return for Her Ladyship's kindness. I'd better die at home.
My brother's done things so handsomely, how can I cause him trouble by killing myself in his house?
Mistress.
cannot be helped,
How have you been, worthy Mr. ha?
So you are Master Zhen, Immortal One!
How is it that last time we met you refused to recognize me? Later I was very worried to hear that your temple had been burned down. Now that I am lucky enough to meet you again, I am sure your virtue must be even greater. As for me, owing to my own inveterate folly, I've now been reduced to this.
Last time you were a high official, so how could a poor priest claim acquaintance with you? As an old friend I ventured to offer you some advice, but you ignored it. However, wealth and poverty, success and failure are predestined. How amazing that we should meet again today! My humble temple is not far from here. Would you care to come for a chat?
It's easily done, with the speed of thought. Coming from the great world, sir, don't you know of a certain Baoyu who used to live in the lap of luxury?
Of course I do! Recently it has been rumoured that he has entered Buddhist orders too. I met him several times, but never dreamed he would take such a decision.
That's where you were wrong! I knew his strange story in advance, and had already met him at the time when the two of us talked before the gate of my old house in Renqing Lane.
How could that be?
With the capital so far from your honourable district!
I met him in spirit a long time ago.
Then you know, no doubt, where he is now?
Baoyu means 'divine jade.' Before the raid on the Rong and Ning Mansions, on the day when Baochai and Daiyu separated, that jade had already left the world of men to escape from calamity and effect a reunion. Then, former ties of affection severed, form and essence once more became one. It further showed its miraculous origin by passing the examination with distinction and begetting a noble son, proving that this jade is a treasure tempered by the divine powers of nature, not to be compared with ordinary objects. It was taken to the mortal worla by me Buddhist of Infinite Space and the Taoist of Boundless Time. Now that its mortal course is run, they have carried it back to its original place: this is what has happened to Baoyu.
So that's the way it was! I'was too ignorant to know. But why, with such a spiritual origin, was Baoyu so enamoured of girls before he became so enlightened? Would you explain that?
This may be hard for you to grasp fully, sir. The Illusory Land of Great Void is the Blessed Land of Truth. By reading the registers twice, he saw the beginning and the ending too all set down there in detail. How could that fail to enlighten him? Since the fairy herb has reverted to her true form, shouldn't the jade of 'spiritual understanding' do the same?
You have told me about Baoyu,
But there are many ladies in our humble clan; how is it that apart from the Imperial Consort all the others came to such undistinguished ends?
You must allow me to speak bluntly, sir. All noble ladies come from the realm of love and retribution. From time immemorial, carnal desire has been their cardinal sin, and they must not even immerse themselves in ~ove. Thus Cui Yingying and Su Xiaoxiao2 were immortals with earthly desires, while Song Yu and Sima Xiangru3 were writers of genius whose works were wicked. Anyone ensnared by love can come to no good end!
I have one more question, Reverend Immortal,
Will the Rong and Ning Mansions be restored to their former prosperity?
It is an immutable law that the good are favoured by fortune while the dissolute meet with calamity. In these two mansions now, the good are laying up virtue, the bad repenting their crimes; so naturally their houses will prosper again with the orchid and fragrant osmanthus blooming together.
I get it! One of the sons of their house called Lan4 has passed the examination; so that prediction of yours has come true. But just now, Reverend Immortal, you spoke of 'the orchid and fragrant osmanthus blooming together, and you mentioned that Baoyu has begotten a noble son. Is this as yet unborn son going to advance rapidly in his official career?
This belongs to the future,
It's not for me to predict.
I still have some worldly affairs to settle and must attend to them today,
What worldly affairs can you have, Immortal One, you whose life is given to cultivating virtue?
Simply some private business concerned with family affection.
What do you mean?
You are unaware, sir, that my daughter Yinglian met with misfortune as a child, and at the start of your official career you judged a case in which she was involved. She has married into the Xue family, but is dying now in childbirth leaving behind her a son to carry on the Xues' line. Since the time has come for her to sever all mortal ties, I must go to guide her spirit.
Congratulations, holy men!
Have you severed all their entanglements of love?
Not completely,
But we have brought that stupid object back with us. We still have to return him to his original place and record his experiences in the world, so that he won't have descended there for nothing.
When I first read this strange story of Brother Stone, I said that it could be made known to the world and therefore had it transcribed. But at that time I hadn't read how he returned to his original form and place. This is quite a story   I wonder when it was added? Apparently Brother Stone after his descent to the world of men was burnished and awoke to the truth, which is highly gratifying! If too many years pass and the inscription is blurred, it may be misconstrued. I had better transcribe it again and find someone with the leisure to circulate it, to show the illusory nature of marvels, mundane matters, truth and falsehood. Then perhaps some men tired of mortal vanity may return to the truth, or some friendly mountain spirit may enable the Stone to descend again to the world.
Yes, I witnessed this whole business myself,
The account you have copied out is quite correct. I'll tell you someone who will circulate it, so that this extraordinary case can be concluded.
Wait till such-and-such a year, month, day and hour, then go to Mourning-the-Red Studio where you will find a certain Mr. Cao Xueqin,
Just give him Jia Yucun's name, and tell him what you want of him.
This certainly sounds like Jia Yucun!
How did you come to know him, sir?
What makes you willing to pass this tale on for him?
They call you Void, and you really are devoid of sense! Since this is a fictitious rustic tale, provided it contains no clerical errors or perverse contradictions, it will serve to while away the time with a couple of friends after wine and food, or to dispel loneliness some rainy evening under the lamp by the window. It doesn't have to be vouched for or launched by men of consequence. All these questions you ask show that you're a pig-headed pedant and won't get you anywhere!
So it's all hot air - fantastic! Neither author, transcriber, nor readers can tell what it is about. It is nothing but a literary diversion to entertain readers.
